Userid: DTD INSTR04 Leadpct: 0% Pt. size: 9.5 ❏ Draft ❏ Ok to Print
PAGER/SGML Fileid: D:\USERS\8fllb\documents\epicfiles\2007Instructions1040NR.sgm (Init. & date)
Page 1 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service2007
Instructions for
Form 1040NR
U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return
Section references are to the Internal use a different address this year. See retirement plan and your 2008 modified
Revenue Code unless otherwise noted. Where To File on page 4. AGI is less than $63,000 ($105,000) if a
General Instructions Domestic production activities qualifying widow(er)).
deduction. The deduction rate for
You may be able to deduct up to an
2007 is increased to 6%.
additional $3,000 if you were a
What’s New for 2007 Unreported social security and participant in a 401(k) plan and your
Tax benefits extended. The following Medicare tax on wages. If you are employer was in bankruptcy in an
tax benefits were extended through an employee and your employer did not earlier year.
2007. withhold social security and Medicare
tax, see Form 8919 to figure and report Personal exemption and itemized
• Deduction for educator expenses in deduction phaseouts reduced.
figuring adjusted gross income. this tax.
Taxpayers with adjusted gross income
• District of Columbia first-time Refundable credit for prior-year above a certain amount may lose part
homebuyer credit. minimum tax. If you have an unused
of their deduction for personal
minimum tax credit carryforward from
Alternative minimum tax (AMT) exemptions and itemized deductions.
2004, see Form 8801 to find if you can
exemption amount decreased. The The amount by which these deductions
AMT exemption amount is decreased to take this credit. are reduced in 2008 will be only ¹/2 of
$33,750 ($45,000 if a qualifying Health savings account (HSA) the amount of the reduction that
widow(er); $22,500 if married filing funding distributions. You may be otherwise would have applied in 2007.
separately). able to elect to exclude from income a
distribution made from your IRA to your Capital gain tax rate reduced. The
At the time these instructions HSA. See the instructions for lines 16a 5% capital gain tax rate is reduced to
went to print, Congress was zero.and 16b beginning on page 12.!
CAUTION considering legislation that
New recordkeeping requirements for Tax on children’s income. Form
would increase the amounts above. To
contributions of money. For 8615 will be required to figure the tax
find out if this legislation was enacted,
charitable contributions of money, for the following children with
and for more details, see the
regardless of the amount, you must investment income of more than
Instructions for Form 6251.
maintain as a record of the contribution $1,800.
IRA deduction expanded. If you were a bank record (such as a cancelled
1. Children under age 18 at the end
covered by a retirement plan, you may check) or a written record from the
of 2008.
be able to take an IRA deduction if your charity. The written record must include
2. The following children if their
2007 modified adjusted gross income the name of the charity, date, and
earned income is not more than half
(AGI) is less than $62,000 ($103,000 if amount of the contribution. See Gifts to
their support.
a qualifying widow(er)). U.S. Charities that begins on page 26.
a. Children age 18 at the end of
You may be able to deduct up to an Exemption for housing a person
2008.
additional $3,000 if you were a displaced by Hurricane Katrina
b. Children over age 18 and under
participant in a 401(k) plan and your expires. The additional exemption
age 24 at the end of 2008 who are
employer was in bankruptcy in an amount for housing a person displaced
full-time students.
earlier year. by Hurricane Katrina does not apply for
Standard mileage rates. The 2007 2007 or later years. The election to report a child’s
rate for business use of your vehicle is Telephone excise tax credit. This investment income on a parent’s return
48¹/2 cents a mile. The 2007 rate for credit was available only on your 2006 and the special rule for when a child
use of your vehicle to move is 20 cents return. If you filed but did not request it must file Form 6251 will also apply to
a mile. The special rate for charitable on your 2006 return, file Form 1040X the children listed above.
use of your vehicle to provide relief using a simplified procedure explained Expiring tax benefits. The following
related to Hurricane Katrina has in its instructions to amend your 2006 benefits are scheduled to expire and
expired. return. If you were not required to file a will not apply for 2008.
Elective salary deferrals. The 2006 return, see the 2006 Form Deduction for educator expenses in
•
maximum amount you can defer under 1040EZ-T. figuring adjusted gross income.
all plans is generally limited to $15,500 What’s New for 2008 • The exclusion from income of
($10,500 if you only have SIMPLE qualified charitable deductions.
plans; $18,500 for section 403(b) plans IRA deduction expanded. You may • Credit for nonbusiness energy
if you qualify for the 15-year rule). See be able to deduct up to $5,000 ($6,000 property.
the instructions for line 8 on page 10. if age 50 or older at the end of the • District of Columbia first-time
Mailing your return. If you are filing year). You may be able to take an IRA homebuyer credit (for homes
the return for an estate or trust, you will deduction if you were covered by a purchased after 2007).
Cat. No. 11368VPage 2 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
These free publications and the country at any time during the day.
Items to Note forms and schedules you will need are However, there are exceptions to this
Form 1040NR-EZ. You may be able available from the Internal Revenue rule. In general, do not count the
to use Form 1040NR-EZ if your only Service. You can download them from following as days of presence in the
income from U.S. sources is wages, the IRS website at www.irs.gov. Also United States for the substantial
salaries, tips, taxable refunds of state see Taxpayer Assistance on page 32 presence test.
and local income taxes, and for other ways to get them (as well as • Days you commute to work in the
scholarship or fellowship grants. For information on receiving IRS assistance United States from a residence in
more details, see Form 1040NR-EZ in completing the forms). Canada or Mexico if you regularly
and its instructions. commute from Canada or Mexico.
• Days you are in the United States forResident Alien orFormer U.S. citizens and former U.S.
less than 24 hours when you are in
long-term residents. If you Nonresident Alien
transit between two places outside of
renounced your U.S. citizenship or
terminated your long-term resident If you are not a citizen of the United the United States.
• Days you are in the United States asStates, specific rules apply to determinestatus after June 3, 2004, you will
continue to be treated for federal tax if you are a resident alien or a a crew member of a foreign vessel.
• Days you intend, but are unable, tononresident alien for tax purposes.purposes as a citizen or long-term
resident of the United States until you Generally, you are considered a leave the United States because of a
(a) give notice of your expatriating act resident alien if you meet either the medical condition that arose while you
or termination of residency (with the green card test or the substantial were in the United States.
• Days you are an exempt individualpresence test for 2007. (These testsrequisite intent to relinquish citizenship
or terminate such status) to the are explained below.) Even if you do (defined below).
Department of State or the Department not meet either of these tests, you may Exempt individual. For these
of Homeland Security, and (b) provide be able to choose to be treated as a purposes, an exempt individual is
an initial expatriation statement (Form U.S. resident for part of 2007. See generally an individual who is a:
8854) to the IRS. Additionally, if you are First-Year Choice in Pub. 519 for • Foreign government-related
subject to the expatriation tax rules of details. individual,
section 877(a), you are required to file You are generally considered a • Teacher or trainee,
an annual expatriation information nonresident alien for the year if you are • Student, or
statement (Form 8854) with the IRS for not a U.S. resident under either of • Professional athlete who is
10 tax years after the date of your these tests. However, even if you are a temporarily in the United States to
expatriation. For more details, see U.S. resident under one of these tests, compete in a charitable sports event.
Special Rules for Former U.S. Citizens you may still be considered a Note. Alien individuals with “Q” visas
and Former U.S. Long-Term Residents nonresident alien if you qualify as a are treated as either students, teachers,
that begins on page 6 and Pub. 519, resident of a treaty country within the or trainees and, as such, are exempt
U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens. meaning of the tax treaty between the individuals for purposes of the
substantial presence test if theyUnited States and that country. YouOther reporting requirements. If you
meet the closer connection to a foreign can download the complete text of most otherwise qualify. “Q” visas are issued
country exception to the substantial U.S. tax treaties at www.irs.gov. to aliens participating in certain
presence test, you must file Form 8840. Technical explanations for many of international cultural exchange
If you exclude days of presence in the those treaties are also available at that programs.
United States for purposes of the site. See Pub. 519 for more details
substantial presence test, you must file For more details on resident and regarding days of presence in the
Form 8843. This rule does not apply to nonresident status, the tests for United States for the substantial
foreign-government-related individuals residence, and the exceptions to them, presence test.
who exclude days of presence in the see Pub. 519.
United States. Certain dual-resident Closer Connection to Foreign
taxpayers who claim tax treaty benefits Green Card Test Country
must file Form 8833. A dual-resident Even though you otherwise would meet
You are a resident for tax purposes if
taxpayer is one who is a resident of the substantial presence test, you can
you were a lawful permanent resident
both the United States and another be treated as a nonresident alien if you:
(immigrant) of the United States at any
country under each country’s tax laws. time during 2007. • Were present in the United States for
fewer than 183 days during 2007,
Additional Information Substantial Presence Test • Establish that during 2007 you had a
If you need more information, our free You are considered a U.S. resident if tax home in a foreign country, and
publications may help you. Pub. 519 you meet the substantial presence test • Establish that during 2007 you had a
will be the most important, but the for 2007. You meet this test if you were closer connection to one foreign
following publications may also help. physically present in the United States country in which you had a tax home
than to the United States unless you
for at least:
had a closer connection to two foreign
Pub. 525 Taxable and Nontaxable 1. 31 days during 2007, and countries.
Income 2. 183 days during the period 2007, See Pub. 519 for more information.
Pub. 529 Miscellaneous Deductions 2006, and 2005, counting all the days
Pub. 552 Recordkeeping for Individuals of physical presence in 2007, but only Who Must File
Pub. 597 Information on the United¹/3 the number of days of presence in
States-Canada Income Tax 2006 and only ¹/6 the number of days in File Form 1040NR if any of the
Treaty 2005. following four conditions applies to you.
Pub. 901 U.S. Tax Treaties 1. You were a nonresident alien
Pub. 910 Guide to Free Tax Services Generally, you are treated as engaged in a trade or business in the
(includes a list of all present in the United States on any day United States during 2007. You must
publications) that you are physically present in the file even if:
-2- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 3 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
a. You have no income from a trade personal representative can be an payments, the withholding agent
or business conducted in the United executor, administrator, or anyone who incorrectly withheld at a rate of 30%
States, is in charge of the deceased person’s (instead of 15%). John is eligible to use
b. You have no U.S. source income, property. the simplified procedure.
or Filing for an estate or trust. If you If you meet all of the conditions listed
c. Your income is exempt from U.S. are filing Form 1040NR for a earlier for the tax year, complete Form
tax under a tax treaty or any section of nonresident alien estate or trust, 1040NR as follows.
the Internal Revenue Code. change the form to reflect the Page 1. Enter your name, identifying
However, if you have no gross provisions of Subchapter J, Chapter 1, number (defined on page 8), type of
income for 2007, do not complete the of the Internal Revenue Code. You may entry visa, country of citizenship, and all
schedules for Form 1040NR. Instead, find it helpful to refer to Form 1041 and address information requested at the
attach a list of the kinds of exclusions its instructions. top of page 1. Leave the rest of page 1
you claim and the amount of each.
blank.
2. You were a nonresident alien not If you are filing Form 1040NR
engaged in a trade or business in the ! for a foreign trust, you may have Page 4, lines 76a through 85. Enter
the amounts of gross income youto file Form 3520-A, AnnualUnited States during 2007 and: CAUTION
Information Return of Foreign Trust received from dividends, interest,
a. You received income from U.S.
With a U.S. Owner, on or before March royalties, pensions, annuities, and other
sources that is reportable on lines 76a
17, 2008. For more information, see the income. If any income you received
through 85, and
Instructions for Form 3520-A. was subject to backup withholding or
b. Not all of the U.S. tax that you
withholding at source, you must include
owe was withheld from that income. Former U.S. citizens and former U.S.
all gross income of that type that you
3. You represent a deceased long-term residents. If you
received. The amount of each type of
person who would have had to file renounced your U.S. citizenship or
income should be shown in the column
Form 1040NR. terminated your long-term resident
under the appropriate U.S. tax rate, if
4. You represent an estate or trust status after June 3, 2004, you are
any, that applies to that type of income
that has to file Form 1040NR. required to (a) file Form 8854, and (b)
in your particular circumstances.
notify the Department of State or the
Exceptions. You do not need to Department of Homeland Security (see If you are entitled to a reduced rate
file Form 1040NR if: the Instructions to Form 8854). of, or exemption from, withholding on
the income pursuant to a tax treaty, the
1. Your only U.S. trade or business If you fail to take these two actions,
applicable rate of U.S. tax is the same
was the performance of personal you are still treated as a citizen or
as the treaty rate. Use column (e) if the
services, and resident of the United States, and you
applicable tax rate is 0%.
a. Your wages were less than must report your worldwide taxable
Example. Mary is a nonresident
$3,400; and income on Form 1040, 1040A, or
alien individual. The only U.S. source
b. You have no other need to file a 1040EZ, and figure your tax as shown
income she received during the year
return to claim a refund of overwithheld in the instructions for those forms. You
was as follows.
taxes, to satisfy additional withholding can only file Form 1040NR and figure
at source, or to claim income exempt or your tax as a nonresident alien for the • 4 dividend payments.
partly exempt by treaty, or portion of the year after you have • 12 interest payments.
2. You were a nonresident alien satisfied both of the requirements All payments were reported to Mary
student, teacher, or trainee who was above. For more details, see Special on Form(s) 1042-S. On one of the
temporarily present in the United States Rules for Former U.S. Citizens and dividend payments, the withholding
under an “F,” “J,”“M,” or “Q” visa, and Former U.S. Long-Term Residents that agent incorrectly withheld at a rate of
you have no income that is subject to begins on page 6 and Expatriation Tax 30% (instead of 15%). There were no
tax under section 871 (that is, the in Pub. 519. other withholding discrepancies. Mary
income items listed on lines 8 through must report all four dividend payments.
21 on page 1 of Form 1040NR and on Simplified Procedure for She is not required to report any of the
lines 76a through 85 on page 4 of Form Claiming Certain Refunds interest payments.
1040NR). Note. Payments of gross proceeds
You can use this procedure only if you
from the sale of securities or regulated
Exception for children under age 18. meet all of the following conditions for futures contracts are generally exempt
If your child was under age 18 at the the tax year. from U.S. tax. If you received such
end of 2007, had income only from • You were a nonresident alien. payments and they were subjected to
interest and dividends that are • You were not engaged in a trade or backup withholding, specify the type of
effectively connected with a U.S. trade business in the United States at any payment on line 85 and show the
or business, and that income totaled time. amount in column (e).
less than $8,500, you may be able to • You had no income that was
effectively connected with the conduct Line 86. Enter the total amount of
elect to report your child’s income on
of a U.S. trade or business. U.S. tax withheld at source (and not
your return. But you must use Form
refunded by the payer or withholding• Your U.S. income tax liability was8814 to do so. If you make this election,
fully satisfied through withholding of tax agent) for the income you included on
your child does not have to file a return.
at source. lines 76a through 85.
For details, see Form 8814.
• You are filing Form 1040NR solely to Lines 87 through 89. Complete
A child born on January 1, claim a refund of U.S. tax withheld at these lines as instructed on the form.
! 1990, is considered to be age source. Page 5. You must answer all
CAUTION 18 at the end of 2007. Do not Example. John is a nonresident questions that apply. For item M, you
use Form 8814 for such a child. alien individual. The only U.S. source must identify the income tax treaty and
Filing a deceased person’s return. income he received during the year was treaty article(s) under which you are
The personal representative must file dividend income from U.S. stocks. The applying for a refund of tax. Also, enter
the return for a deceased person who dividend income was reported to him on the type of income (for example,
was required to file a return for 2007. A Form(s) 1042-S. On one of the dividend dividends, royalties) and amount in the
Instructions for Form 1040NR -3-Page 4 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
appropriate space. You must provide mutual fund or REIT and provides the the “timely mailing as timely filing/
the information required for each type basis for the claim. paying” rule for tax returns and
of income for which a treaty claim is payments. These private delivery
If you are claiming an exemption
made. services include only the following.
from withholding on a distribution from
Note. If you are claiming a reduced a U.S. corporation with respect to its • DHL Express (DHL): DHL Same Day
rate of, or exemption from, tax based stock because, in your particular Service, DHL Next Day 10:30 am, DHL
on a tax treaty, you must generally be a circumstances, the transaction qualifies Next Day 12:00 pm, DHL Next Day
resident of the particular treaty country as a redemption of stock under section 3:00 pm, and DHL 2nd Day Service.
within the meaning of the treaty and 302, you must attach a statement that • Federal Express (FedEx): FedEx
you cannot have a permanent describes the transaction and presents Priority Overnight, FedEx Standard
establishment or fixed base in the the facts necessary to establish that the Overnight, FedEx 2Day, FedEx
United States. payment was (a) a complete International Priority, and FedEx
redemption, (b) a disproportionate International First.
Page 2, lines 53 and 58. Enter your
• United Parcel Service (UPS): UPSredemption, or (c) not essentiallytotal income tax liability.
equivalent to a dividend. Next Day Air, UPS Next Day Air Saver,
Line 66. Enter the total amount of UPS 2nd Day Air, UPS 2nd Day Air
U.S. tax withheld (from line 86). When To File A.M., UPS Worldwide Express Plus,
Line 70. Add lines 59 through 69. and UPS Worldwide Express.
This is the total tax you have paid. Individuals. If you were an employee The private delivery service can tell you
and received wages subject to U.S. how to get written proof of the mailing
Lines 71 and 72a. Enter the
income tax withholding, file Form date.
difference between line 58 and line 70.
1040NR by the 15th day of the 4th
This is your total refund.
month after your tax year ends. A Private delivery services cannot
You can have the refund deposited return for the 2007 calendar year is due ! deliver items to P.O. boxes. You
in one or more accounts. See Lines by April 15, 2008. CAUTION must use the U.S. Postal
72a through 72d— Direct deposit of Service to mail any item to an IRS P.O.
If you did not receive wages as an
refund on page 24 for more details. box address.
employee subject to U.S. income tax
Signature. You must sign and date withholding, file Form 1040NR by the
your tax return. See Reminders on 15th day of the 6th month after your tax Election To Be Taxed as
page 30. year ends. A return for the 2007
a Resident Aliencalendar year is due by June 16, 2008.Documentation. You must attach
acceptable proof of the withholding for Estates and trusts. If you file for a You can elect to be taxed as a U.S.
which you are claiming a refund. If you nonresident alien estate or trust that resident for the whole year if all of the
are claiming a refund of backup has an office in the United States, file following apply.
withholding tax based on your status as the return by the 15th day of the 4th • You were married.
a nonresident alien, you must attach a month after the tax year ends. If you file • Your spouse was a U.S. citizen or
copy of the Form 1099 that shows the for a nonresident alien estate or trust resident alien on the last day of the tax
income and the amount of backup that does not have an office in the year.
withholding. If you are claiming a refund United States, file the return by the 15th • You file a joint return for the year of
of U.S. tax withheld at source, you must day of the 6th month after the tax year the election using Form 1040, 1040A,
attach a copy of the Form 1042-S that ends. or 1040EZ.
shows the income and the amount of To make this election, you must attach
Note. If the regular due date for filing
U.S. tax withheld. the statement described in Pub. 519 to
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
Additional Information holiday, file by the next business day. your return. Do not use Form 1040NR.
Portfolio interest. If you are claiming Extension of time to file. If you Your worldwide income for the whole
a refund of U.S. tax withheld from cannot file your return by the due date, year must be included and will be taxed
portfolio interest, include a description you should file Form 4868. You must under U.S. tax laws. You must agree to
of the relevant debt obligation, including file Form 4868 by the regular due date keep the records, books, and other
the name of the issuer, CUSIP number of the return. information needed to figure the tax. If
(if any), interest rate, and the date the you made the election in an earlier
Note. Form 4868 does not extend the
debt was issued. year, you can file a joint return or
time to pay your income tax. The tax is
separate return for 2007. If you file a
Withholding on distributions. If you due by the regular due date of the
separate return, use Form 1040 or
are claiming an exemption from return.
Form 1040A. Your worldwide income
withholding on a distribution from a U.S.
for the whole year must be included
corporation with respect to its stock Where To File
whether you file a joint or separate
because the corporation had insufficient
return.Individuals. File Form 1040NR withearnings and profits to support dividend
treatment, you must attach a statement the Department of the Treasury,
Nonresident aliens who make
that identifies the distributing Internal Revenue Service Center,
this election may forfeit the right Austin, TX 73301-0215 U.S.A.corporation and provides the basis for !
CAUTION to claim benefits otherwise
the claim. Estates and trusts. File Form available under a U.S. tax treaty. For
If you are claiming an exemption 1040NR with the Department of the more details, see the specific treaty.
from withholding on a distribution from Treasury, Internal Revenue Service
a mutual fund or real estate investment Center, Cincinnati, OH 45999-0048
trust (REIT) with respect to its stock U.S.A. Dual-Status Taxpayers
because the distribution was Note. If you elect to be taxed as a
designated as long-term capital gain or Private Delivery Services resident alien (discussed earlier), the
a nondividend distribution, you must You can use certain private delivery special instructions and restrictions
attach a statement that identifies the services designated by the IRS to meet discussed here do not apply.
-4- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 5 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Dual-Status Tax Year from all sources for the part of the year Special rules apply for exemptions
you were a resident alien. Generally, for the part of the tax year a dual-status
A dual-status year is one in which you
you are taxed on income only from U.S. taxpayer is a nonresident alien if the
change status between nonresident
sources for the part of the year you taxpayer is a resident of Canada,
and resident alien. Different U.S.
were a nonresident alien. However, all Mexico, or the Republic of Korea
income tax rules apply to each status.
income effectively connected with the (South Korea); a U.S. national; or a
Most dual-status years are the years conduct of a trade or business in the student or business apprentice from
of arrival or departure. Before you United States is taxable. India. See Pub. 519.
arrive in the United States, you are a
nonresident alien. After you arrive, you Income you received as a Tax credits. You cannot take the
may or may not be a resident, dual-status taxpayer from sources earned income credit, the credit for the
depending on the circumstances. outside the United States while a elderly or disabled, or an education
resident alien is taxable even if you credit unless you elect to be taxed as a
If you become a U.S. resident, you
became a nonresident alien after resident alien (see the instructions on
stay a resident until you leave the
receiving it and before the close of the page 4) in lieu of these dual-status
United States. You may become a
tax year. Conversely, income you taxpayer rules. For information on other
nonresident alien when you leave if,
received from sources outside the credits, see chapter 6 of Pub. 519.
after leaving (or after your last day of
United States while a nonresident alien
lawful permanent residency if you met
the green card test) and for the is not taxable in most cases even if you How To Figure Tax for
became a resident alien after receiving
remainder of the calendar year of your it and before the close of the tax year. Dual-Status Year
departure, you have a closer
Income from U.S. sources is taxable When you figure your U.S. tax for a
connection to a foreign country than to
whether you received it while a dual-status year, you are subject to
the United States, and, during the next
nonresident alien or a resident alien. different rules for the part of the year
calendar year, you are not a U.S.
you were a resident and the part of the
resident under either the green card
Restrictions for Dual-Status year you were a nonresident.
test or the substantial presence test.
See Pub. 519. Taxpayers All income for the period of
residence and all income that isStandard deduction. You cannot takeWhat and Where to File for a
the standard deduction even for the effectively connected with a trade or
Dual-Status Year part of the year you were a resident business in the United States for the
If you were a U.S. resident on the last alien. period of nonresidence, after allowable
day of the tax year, file Form 1040. deductions, is combined and taxed at
Head of household. You cannot use
Enter “Dual-Status Return” across the the same rates that apply to U.S.
the Head of household Tax Table
top and attach a statement showing citizens and residents. For the period of
column or Section D of the Tax
your income for the part of the year you residence, allowable deductions include
Computation Worksheet.
were a nonresident. You can use Form all deductions on Schedule A of Form
1040NR as the statement; enter Joint return. You cannot file a joint 1040, including medical expenses, real
“Dual-Status Statement” across the top. return unless you elect to be taxed as a property taxes, and certain interest.
Do not sign Form 1040NR. File your resident alien (see the instructions on See the Instructions for Schedules A&B
return and statement with the page 4) in lieu of these dual-status (Form 1040).
Department of the Treasury, Internal taxpayer rules.
Revenue Service Center, Austin, TX Income that is not effectively
Tax rates. If you were married and a connected with a trade or business in
73301-0215 U.S.A.
nonresident of the United States for all the United States for the period of
If you were a nonresident on the last or part of the tax year and you do not nonresidence is subject to the flat 30%
day of the tax year, file Form 1040NR. make the election to be taxed as a rate or lower treaty rate. No deductions
Enter “Dual-Status Return” across the resident alien as discussed on page 4, are allowed against this income.
top and attach a statement showing you must use the Married filing
your income for the part of the year you separately column in the Tax Table or If you were a resident alien on the
were a U.S. resident. You may use Section C of the Tax Computation last day of the tax year and you are
Form 1040 as the statement; enter Worksheet to figure your tax on income filing Form 1040, include the tax on the
“Dual-Status Statement” across the top. effectively connected with a U.S. trade noneffectively connected income in the
Do not sign Form 1040. File your return or business. If married, you cannot use total on Form 1040, line 63. To the left
and statement with the Department of the Single Tax Table column or Section of line 63 enter “Tax from Form
the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service A of the Tax Computation Worksheet. 1040NR” and the amount.
Center, Austin, TX 73301-0215 U.S.A.
Deduction for exemptions. As a If you are filing Form 1040NR, enter
Statements. Any statement you file
with your return must show your name, dual-status taxpayer, you usually will be the tax from the Tax Table, Tax
address, and identifying number entitled to your own personal Computation Worksheet, Qualified
(defined on page 8). exemption. Subject to the general rules Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
for qualification, you are allowed Worksheet, Schedule D Tax
Former U.S. long-term residents are exemptions for your spouse and
Worksheet, Schedule J (Form 1040), or
required to file Form 8854 with their dependents in figuring taxable income
Form 8615 on line 41 and the tax on
dual-status return for the last year of for the part of the year you were a
the noneffectively connected income on
U.S. residency. To determine if you are resident alien. The amount you can
line 53.
a former U.S. long-term resident, see claim for these exemptions is limited to
the instructions that begin on page 6. your taxable income (determined Credit for taxes paid. You are
Income Subject to Tax for without regard to exemptions) for the allowed a credit against your U.S.
part of the year you were a resident income tax liability for certain taxes you
Dual-Status Year alien. You cannot use exemptions paid or are considered to have paid or
As a dual-status taxpayer not filing a (other than your own) to reduce taxable that were withheld from your income.
joint return, you are taxed on income income to below zero for that period. These include:
Instructions for Form 1040NR -5-Page 6 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
1. Tax withheld from wages earned in See Pub. 555, Community Property, for The election does not apply to
the United States and taxes withheld more details. dispositions of U.S. real property
at the source from various items of interests discussed earlier.
income from U.S. sources other than Kinds of Income To make the election, attach a
wages. This includes U.S. tax You must divide your income for the tax statement to your return for the year of
withheld on dispositions of U.S. real year into the following three categories. the election. Include in your statement:
property interests. 1. Income effectively connected with 1. That you are making the election.
2. A complete list of all of your reala U.S. trade or business. This incomeWhen filing Form 1040, show the
is taxed at the same rates that apply to property, or any interest in real
total tax withheld on line 64. Enter
U.S. citizens and residents. Report this property, located in the United States
amounts from the attached statement
income on page 1 of Form 1040NR. (including location). Give the legal
(Form 1040NR, lines 59, 66, 67a,
Pub. 519 describes this income in identification of U.S. timber, coal, or
67b, 68a, and 68b) in the column to
greater detail. iron ore in which you have an interest.
the right of line 64 and identify and
2. U.S. income not effectively 3. The extent of your ownership in
include in the amount on line 64.
connected with a U.S. trade or the real property.
4. A description of any substantialbusiness. This income is taxed at 30%When filing Form 1040NR, show the
total tax withheld on lines 59, 66, unless a treaty between your country improvements to the property.
5. Your income from the property.and the United States has set a lower67a, 67b, 68a, and 68b. Enter the
6. The dates you owned therate that applies to you. Report thisamount from the attached statement
income on page 4 of Form 1040NR. property.
(Form 1040, line 64) in the column to
Pub. 519 describes this income more 7. Whether the election is under
the right of line 59 and identify and
fully. section 871(d) or a tax treaty.
include in the amount on line 59.
8. Details of any previous elections
2. Estimated tax paid with Form Note. Use line 56 to report the 4% tax and revocations of the real property
1040-ES or Form 1040-ES (NR). on U.S. source gross transportation election.
income.
3. Tax paid with Form 1040-C at the 3. Income exempt from U.S. tax.
Foreign Income Taxed by the
time of departure from the United Complete items L and/or M on page 5
States. When filing Form 1040, of Form 1040NR and, if applicable, line United States
include the tax paid with Form 22 on page 1. You may be required to report some
1040-C with the total payments on income from foreign sources on your
line 72. Identify the payment in the U.S. return if it is effectively connected
Dispositions of U.S. Real
area to the left of the entry. with a U.S. trade or business. For this
Property Interests foreign income to be treated as
Gain or loss on the disposition of a U.S. effectively connected with a U.S. trade
How To Report Income real property interest (see Pub. 519 for or business, you must have an office or
on Form 1040NR definition) is taxed as if the gain or loss other fixed place of business in the
were effectively connected with the United States to which the income can
conduct of a U.S. trade or business. be attributed. For more information,
Community Income See section 897 and its regulations. including a list of the types of foreign
If either you or your spouse (or both source income that must be treated as
you and your spouse) were nonresident Report gains and losses on the effectively connected with a U.S. trade
aliens at any time during the tax year disposition of U.S. real property or business, see Pub. 519.
and you had community income during interests on Schedule D (Form 1040)
the year, treat the community income and Form 1040NR, line 14. Also, net Special Rules for Former
according to the applicable community gains may be subject to the alternative
property laws except as follows. minimum tax. See the instructions for U.S. Citizens and Former
• Earned income of a spouse, other line 42. U.S. Long-Term
than trade or business income or
See Pub. 519 for more details.
partnership distributive share income. Residents
The spouse whose services produced
the income must report it on his or her Income You May Elect To
Expatriation Tax
separate return. Treat as Effectively
• Trade or business income, other than Connected With a U.S. Trade The expatriation tax provisions provide
partnership distributive share income. an alternative tax regime for certain
or Business nonresident aliens who lost U.S.
Treat this income as received by the
spouse carrying on the trade or You can elect to treat some items of citizenship or terminated U.S. long-term
business and report it on that spouse’s income as effectively connected with a resident status. In 2004, the
return. U.S. trade or business. The election expatriation rules that determine
Partnership distributive share income applies to all income from real property whether you are subject to this
•
(or loss). Treat this income (or loss) as located in the United States and held alternative tax regime changed. If you
received by the spouse who is the for the production of income and to all expatriated on or before June 3, 2004,
partner and report it on that spouse’s income from any interest in such one set of rules applies. If you
return. property. This includes: expatriated after June 3, 2004, another
set of rules applies. See the rules on• Gains from the sale or exchange ofIncome derived from the separate
•
property of one spouse that is not such property or an interest therein. this page and the next two pages that
apply to you. • Gains on the disposal of timber, coal,earned income, trade or business
income, or partnership distributive or iron ore with a retained economic Former U.S. long-term resident
share income. The spouse with the interest. defined. You are a former U.S.
separate property must report this • Rents and royalties from mines, oil or long-term resident if you were a lawful
income on his or her separate return. gas wells, or other natural resources. permanent resident of the United States
-6- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 7 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
(green-card holder) in at least 8 of the Inflation-Adjusted Amounts for Expatriation Actions Before June 4, 2004
last 15 consecutive tax years ending
with the year your residency ends. In IF you expatriated THEN the rules outlined on this page apply
determining if you meet the 8-year during . . . if . . .
requirement, do not count any year that Your 5-year
you were treated as a resident of Your net
average annual
another country under a tax treaty and worth
net income tax OR
you did not waive treaty benefits. equaled or
was more
exceeded ...
than ...
Expatriation Before June 4,
2004 1997 $106,000 $528,000
1998 109,000 543,000
The alternative tax regime will apply to
you for the 10 succeeding tax years 1999 110,000 552,000
following the year of your expatriation if 2000 112,000 562,000
one of the principal purposes of your 2001 116,000 580,000
action was to avoid U.S. taxes. You are 2002 120,000 599,000
considered to have tax avoidance as a 2003 122,000 608,000
principal purpose if: 2004 (before
124,000 622,000
1. Your average annual net income June 4)*
tax for the last 5 tax years ending
*If you expatriated after June 3, 2004, see Expatriation After June 3, 2004 on this page.
before the date of your action to
relinquish your citizenship or terminate
your residency was more than
inflation if your expatriation is after prescribed in the instructions for those
$100,000, or
2004 (see the chart below). forms. For details, see Tax
2. Your net worth on the date of
2. Your net worth on the date of consequences of presence in the
your action was $500,000 or more.
your action was $2,000,000 or more. United States under Expatriation After
The amounts above are adjusted for 3. You fail to certify under penalties June 3, 2004, in Pub. 519.
inflation if your expatriation action is of perjury that all of your U.S. federal Annual information statement. If the
after 1996 (see the chart on this page). tax obligations for the last 5 tax years alternative tax regime under the
ending before the date of your action
For more details, see Notice 97-19, expatriation tax provisions applies to
have been met.
1997-1 C.B. 394; and Notice 98-34, you, check the “Yes” box in item P on
1998-2 C.B. 29. You can find Notice Form 1040NR, page 5, and attach a
97-19 on page 40 of Internal Revenue Inflation-Adjusted Amounts for completed Form 8854 (Parts I and III of
Bulletin 1997-10 at www.irs.gov/pub/ Expatriation Actions After June 3, 2004 Schedules A and B) to your tax return.
irs-irbs/irb97-10.pdf. You can find You must attach the form for each of
Notice 98-34 on page 30 of Internal IF you THEN the rules the 10 tax years beginning with the
Revenue Bulletin 1998-27 at www.irs. expatriated outlined on this page year that includes your date of
gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb98-27.pdf. during ... apply if your 5-year expatriation, whether or not you owe
U.S. tax. For more details regarding the
Annual information statement. If the average annual net
filing of Form 8854, see the Instructions
alternative tax regime under the income tax was more
for Form 8854.
expatriation tax provisions apply to you, than ...
check the “Yes” box in item P on Form Penalty. If you fail to file a required
2004
1040NR, page 5. You also must attach Form 8854 for any tax year or fail to
(after $124,000
an annual information statement to include all information required to be
June 3)*
Form 1040NR that lists by category (for shown on the form, you may have to
example, dividends, interest, etc.) all 2005 127,000 pay a penalty in the amount of $10,000
items of U.S. and foreign source gross 2006 131,000 for each required Form 8854. You will
income (whether or not taxable in the 2007 136,000 not have to pay the penalty if you can
United States). The statement must show that the failure to file the
*If you expatriated before June 4, 2004, see
identify the source of such income Expatriation Before June 4, 2004 on this page. completed form was due to reasonable
(determined under section 877 as cause.
modified by Section V of Notice 97-19)
and those items of income subject to Exception for dual citizens and How To Figure Your
tax under section 877. You must attach certain minors. Dual citizens and Alternative Tax Under the
the statement to Form 1040NR, certain minors are not subject to the
whether or not you owe any U.S. tax. expatriation tax even if they meet (1) or Expatriation Provisions
(2) above. However, they must provide Note. The following discussion applies
Expatriation After June 3, the certification required in (3) above. to you whether you expatriated before
2004 For the definitions of “dual citizens” and June 4, 2004, or after June 3, 2004.
The alternative tax regime will apply to “certain minors,” see Pub. 519.
If the alternative tax regime applies
you for the 10 succeeding tax years Exception if in the United States for to you, you are subject to tax on U.S.
following the year of your expatriation if more than 30 days. Generally, the source gross income and gains on
any one of the following apply. alternative tax regime does not apply to either (a) a net basis at the graduated
1. Your average annual net income any tax year during the 10-year period rates applicable to individuals (with
tax for the last 5 tax years ending if you are physically present in the allowable deductions), or (b) a gross
before the date of your action to United States for more than 30 days basis at a rate of 30% (or lower treaty
relinquish your citizenship or terminate during the calendar year ending in that rate) under the rules of section 871(a).
your residency was more than year. You must file Form 1040, 1040A, See page 29 for more details on the tax
$124,000. This amount is adjusted for or 1040EZ, and figure your tax as imposed under section 871(a).
Instructions for Form 1040NR -7-Page 8 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
If you have items of U.S. source benefits or change your employment or
income that are subject to tax under Line Instructions for immigration status under U.S. law.
section 871(a), you will be taxed at a
rate of 30% (or lower treaty rate) on Form 1040NR If you are filing Form 1040NR for an
estate or trust, enter the employer
your gross income only if this tax
identification number (EIN) of the estate
exceeds the tax at the regular
or trust. For details on how to get an
graduated rates on your net income. If
Name, Address, and EIN, see Form SS-4 and its
the 30% (or lower treaty rate) tax on
instructions.
your gross income exceeds the Identifying Number
An incorrect or missing identifying
graduated tax on your net income,
number may increase your tax orName. If you are filing Form 1040NRreport those items on the appropriate
lines on page 4 of Form 1040NR. If the for an estate or trust, enter the name of reduce your refund.
graduated tax on your net income the estate or trust. Attach a statement Entry visa. Enter the type of U.S. visa
exceeds the 30% (or lower treaty rate) to Form 1040NR with your name, title, (for example, F, J, M, etc.) you used to
tax on your gross income, report your address, and the name and address of enter the United States.
income on the appropriate lines on any U.S. grantors and beneficiaries. If
page 1 of Form 1040NR and attach a you are filing Form 1040NR for an
statement describing the items and estate or trust engaged in a trade or Filing Status
amounts of income that are subject to business in the United States during
The amount of your tax depends on
tax by reason of section 877. 2007, give the names and addresses of
your filing status. Before you decide
all beneficiaries.
If you have other items of U.S. which box to check, read the following
P.O. box. Enter your box number only explanations.
source income that are not subject to
if your post office does not deliver mail
tax under section 871(a), you will be Were you single or married? If you
to your home.
taxed on a net basis at the regular were married on December 31,
graduated rates applicable to Foreign address. Enter the consider yourself married for the whole
individuals. Report this income on the information in the following order: City, year. If you were single, divorced, or
appropriate lines on page 1 of Form province or state, and country. Follow legally separated under a decree of
1040NR. the country’s practice for entering the divorce or separate maintenance on
postal code. Do not abbreviate the December 31, consider yourself single
For purposes of figuring the tax due
country name. for the whole year. If you meet the tests
under section 877, the following items
of income are treated as U.S. source. Identifying number. If you are an described under Married persons who
individual, you generally are required to live apart below, you may consider
1. Gains on the sale or exchange of
enter your social security number yourself single for the whole year.
personal property located in the United
(SSN). To apply for this number, get If your spouse died in 2007, consider
States.
Form SS-5, Application for a Social yourself married to that spouse for the
2. Gains on the sale or exchange of
Security Card, from your local Social whole year, unless you remarried
stock issued by a domestic corporation
Security Administration (SSA) office or before the end of 2007.
or debt obligations of the United States,
call the SSA at 1-800-772-1213. You
U.S. persons, a state or political U.S. national. A U.S. national is an
can also download Form SS-5 from the
subdivision thereof, and the District of individual who, although not a U.S.
SSA’s website at
Columbia. citizen, owes his or her allegiance to
www.socialsecurity.gov/online/
3. Income or gain derived from the United States. U.S. nationals
ss-5.html. You must visit an SSA office
stock in a foreign corporation if you include American Samoans and
in person and submit your Form SS-5
owned, either directly or indirectly Northern Mariana Islanders who chose
along with original documentation
(through the rules of sections 958(a) to become U.S. nationals instead of
showing your age, identity, immigration
and 958(b)), more than 50% of the vote U.S. citizens.
status, and authority to work in the
or value of the stock of the corporation Married persons who live apart.
United States. If you are an F-1 or M-1
on the date of your renunciation of Some married persons who have a
student, you also must show your Form
citizenship or termination of residency child and who do not live with their
I-20. If you are a J-1 exchange visitor,
or at any time during the 2 years spouse can file as single. If you meet
you will also need to show your Form
preceding such date. Such income or all five of the following tests and you
DS-2019. Generally, you will receive
gain is considered U.S. source only to are a married resident of Canada or
your card about 2 weeks after the SSA
the extent of your share of the earnings Mexico, or you are a married U.S.
has all the evidence and information it
and profits earned or accumulated prior national, check the box on line 1. If you
needs.
to the date of renunciation of U.S. meet the tests below and you are a
citizenship or termination of residency. If you do not have and are not married resident of the Republic of
eligible to get an SSN, you must apply Korea (South Korea), check the box on
Any exchange of property is treated for an individual taxpayer identification line 2.
as a sale of the property at its fair number (ITIN). For details on how to do
1. You file a return separate from
market value on the date of the so, see Form W-7 and its instructions. It
your spouse.
exchange and any gain is treated as usually takes about 4–6 weeks to get
2. You paid more than half the cost
U.S. source gross income in the tax an ITIN.
to keep up your home in 2007.
year of the exchange unless you enter If you already have an ITIN, enter it 3. You lived apart from your spouse
into a gain recognition agreement under wherever your SSN is requested on during the last 6 months of 2007.
Notice 97-19. your tax return. If you are required to Temporary absences for special
Most U.S. tax treaties do not prevent include another person’s SSN on your circumstances, such as for business,
the United States from continuing to tax return and that person does not have medical care, school, or military
former citizens and former LTRs under and cannot get an SSN, enter that service, count as time lived in the
domestic law. Unless the treaty person’s ITIN. home.
prevents it, you will be subject to the Note. An ITIN is for tax use only. It 4. Your home was the main home of
rules of section 877. does not entitle you to social security your child, stepchild, or foster child for
-8- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 9 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
more than half of 2007. Temporary even if your spouse died in 2007.) In may attach a copy of the child’s birth
absences, such as for school, vacation, addition, if you checked filing status box certificate instead and enter “Died” in
or medical care, count as time lived in 4, your spouse must have lived with column (2).
the home. you in the United States at some time Adoption taxpayer identification
5. You are able to claim a during 2007. Finally, your spouse must numbers (ATINs). If you have a
dependency exemption for the child or have an SSN or an ITIN. If your spouse dependent who was placed with you by
the child’s other parent claims him or is not eligible to obtain an SSN, he or an authorized placement agency and
her as a dependent under the rules for she must apply for an ITIN. See you do not know his or her SSN, you
children of divorced or separated Identifying number on page 8 for must get an ATIN for the dependent
parents. See Form 8332, Release of additional information. from the IRS. An authorized placement
Claim to Exemption for Child of Line 7c — Dependents. Only U.S. agency includes any person authorized
Divorced or Separated Parents. nationals and residents of Canada, by state law to place children for legal
Mexico, and the Republic of Korea adoption. See Form W-7A for details.
Adopted child. An adopted child is
(South Korea) can claim exemptions for
always treated as your own child. An Line 7c, column (4). Check the
their dependents. If you were a U.S.
adopted child includes a child lawfully box in this column if your dependent is
national or a resident of Canada or
placed with you for legal adoption. a qualifying child for the child tax credit
Mexico, you can claim exemptions for
(defined below). If you have at least
Foster child. A foster child is any your children and other dependents on
one qualifying child, you may be able to
child placed with you by an authorized the same terms as U.S. citizens. See
take the child tax credit on line 47 and
placement agency, or by judgment, Pub. 501 for more details. If you were a
the additional child tax credit on line 62.
decree, or other order of any court of resident of the Republic of Korea
competent jurisdiction. (South Korea), you can claim an Qualifying child for child tax
credit. A qualifying child for purposesexemption for any of your children whoLine 6 — Qualifying widow(er) with
of the child tax credit is a child who:lived with you in the United States atdependent child. You can check the
• Was under age 17 at the end ofsome time during 2007. Be sure tobox on line 6 if all seven of the following
apply. complete item I on page 5 of the form. 2007.
• Is your son, daughter, stepchild,
1. You were a resident of Canada, You can take an exemption for each
foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother,
Mexico, or the Republic of Korea of your dependents. If you have more
stepsister, or a descendant of any of
(South Korea), or were a U.S. national. than four dependents, attach a
them (for example, your grandchild,
2. Your spouse died in 2005 or statement to your return with the
niece, or nephew).
2006 and you did not remarry before required information.
• Is a U.S. citizen, a U.S. national, or a
the end of 2007. For additional information on resident alien.
3. You have a child or stepchild ! whether you can claim an • Did not provide over half of his or her
whom you claim as a dependent. This CAUTION exemption for a dependent, see own support for 2007.
does not include a foster child. Exemptions for Dependents in Pub. • Lived with you more than half of
4. This child lived in your home for 501. 2007. Temporary absences, such as for
all of 2007. Temporary absences, such school, vacation, or medical care, count
Children who did not live with you
as for school, vacation, or medical care, as time lived in the home.
due to divorce or separation. If you
count as time lived in the home. An adopted child is always treated as
checked filing status box 1 or 3 and are
5. You paid over half the cost of your own child. An adopted child
claiming as a dependent a child who
keeping up your home. includes a child lawfully placed with you
did not live with you under the rules for
6. You were a resident alien or U.S. for legal adoption.
children of divorced or separated
citizen the year your spouse died. This
parents, attach Form 8332 or similar
refers to your actual status, not the
statement to your return. See Form
election that some nonresident aliens 8332 for details. Rounding Off to Whole
can make to be taxed as U.S.
residents. Other dependent children. Dollars
7. You were entitled to file a joint Include the total number of children
who did not live with you for reasons You may round off cents to whole
return with your spouse the year he or
other than divorce or separation on the dollars on your return and schedules. If
she died, even if you did not actually do
line labeled “Dependents on 7c not you do round to whole dollars, you
so.
entered above.” must round all amounts. To round, drop
amounts under 50 cents and increase
Line 7c, column (2). You must
amounts from 50 to 99 cents to the next
enter each dependent’s identifying
Exemptions number (SSN, ITIN, or adoption dollar. For example, $1.39 becomes $1
and $2.50 becomes $3.
Exemptions for estates and trusts are taxpayer identification number (ATIN)).
described in the instructions for line 39 If you do not enter the correct If you have to add two or more
on page 18. identifying number, at the time we amounts to figure the amount to enter
process your return we may disallow on a line, include cents when adding
Note. Residents of India who were
the exemption claimed for the the amounts and round off only the
students or business apprentices may
dependent and reduce or disallow any total.
be able to claim exemptions for their
spouse and dependents. See Pub. 519 other tax benefits (such as the child tax
for details. credit) based on the dependent.
For details on how your Income Effectively
Line 7b— Spouse. If you checked
dependent can get anfiling status box 3 or 4, you can take an Connected With U.S.TIP
exemption for your spouse only if your identifying number, see
spouse had no gross income for U.S. Identifying number on page 8. Trade or Business
tax purposes and cannot be claimed as If your dependent child was born Pub. 519 explains how income is
a dependent on another U.S. and died in 2007 and you do not have classified and what income you should
taxpayer’s return. (You can do this an identifying number for the child, you report here. The instructions for this
Instructions for Form 1040NR -9-Page 10 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
section assume you have decided that 1. The specific compensation or the are included as income in box 1 of your
the income involved is effectively specific fringe benefit for which an Form W-2.
connected with a U.S. trade or alternative basis is used. A higher limit may apply to
business in which you were engaged. 2. For each such item, the participants in section 457(b) deferred
But your decision may not be easy. alternative basis of allocation of source compensation plans for the 3 years
Interest, for example, may be effectively used. before retirement age. Contact your
connected with a U.S. trade or 3. For each such item, a plan administrator for more information.
business, it may not be, or it may be computation showing how the
If you were age 50 or older at the
tax-exempt. The tax status of income alternative allocation was computed.
end of 2007, your employer may have
also depends on its source. Under 4. A comparison of the dollar
allowed an additional deferral (catch-up
some circumstances, items of income amount of the compensation sourced
contribution) of up to $5,000 ($2,500 for
from foreign sources are treated as within and without the United States
section 401(k)(11) and SIMPLE plans).
effectively connected with a U.S. trade under both the alternative basis and the
This additional deferral amount is not
or business. Other items are reportable time or geographical basis for
subject to the overall limit on elective
as effectively connected or not determining the source.
deferrals.
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
You must keep documentation showing
or business, depending on how you You cannot deduct the amount
why the alternative basis more properly
elect to treat them. ! deferred. It is not included as
determines the source of the
Line 8 — Wages, salaries, tips, etc. CAUTION income in your Form W-2,
compensation.
Enter the total of your effectively box 1.
connected wages, salaries, tips, etc. Also include on line 8: • Disability pensions shown on Form
For most people, the amount to enter Wages received as a household 1042-S or Form 1099-R if you have not
•
on this line should be shown in their employee for which you did not receive reached the minimum retirement age
Form(s) W-2, box 1. However, do not a Form W-2 because your employer set by your employer. Disability
include on line 8 amounts exempted paid you less than $1,500 in 2007. pensions received after you reach that
under a tax treaty. Instead, include Also, enter “HSH” and the amount not age and other payments shown on
these amounts on line 22 and complete reported on a Form W-2 on the dotted Form 1042-S or Form 1099-R (other
item M on page 5 of Form 1040NR. line next to line 8. than payments from an IRA*) are
reported on lines 17a and 17b.
Services performed partly inside • Tip income you did not report to your
Payments from an IRA are reported on
and partly outside the United States. employer. Also include allocated tips
lines 16a and 16b.
If you performed services as an shown on your Form(s) W-2 unless you
• Corrective distributions from a can prove that you received less.employee both inside and outside the
retirement plan shown on Form 1042-S
United States, you must allocate your Allocated tips should be shown in your
or Form 1099-R of excess salary
compensation between U.S. and Form(s) W-2, box 8. They are not
deferrals and excess contributions (plus
non-U.S. sources. Only the U.S. source included as income in box 1. See Pub.
earnings). But do not include
income is included on line 8 as 531 for more details.
distributions from an IRA* on line 8.
effectively connected wages.
You may owe social security Instead, report distributions from an IRA
 Compensation (other than certain on lines 16a and 16b.
! and Medicare tax on unreported
fringe benefits) generally is sourced on CAUTION or allocated tips. See the • Wages from Form 8919, line 6.
a time basis. To figure your U.S. source
instructions for line 54 on page 22. *This includes a Roth, SEP, or
income, divide the number of days you
• Dependent care benefits, which SIMPLE IRA.
performed labor or personal services
should be shown in your Form(s) W-2, Missing or incorrect Form W-2.
within the United States by the total
box 10. But first complete Form 2441 to Your employer is required to provide or
number of days you performed labor or
see if you can exclude part or all of the send Form W-2 to you no later than
personal services within and without the
benefits. January 31, 2008. If you do not receive
United States. Multiply the result by
your total compensation (other than • Employer-provided adoption benefits, it by early February, ask your employer
which should be shown in your Form(s) for it. Even if you do not get a Form
certain fringe benefits).
W-2, box 12, with code T. You also W-2, you still must report your earnings
Certain fringe benefits (such as may be able to exclude amounts if you on line 8. If you lose your Form W-2 or
housing and educational expenses) are adopted a child with special needs and it is incorrect, ask your employer for a
sourced on a geographic basis. The the adoption became final in 2007. See new one.
source of the fringe benefit the Instructions for Form 8839 to find
Line 9a — Taxable interest. Report
compensation generally is your out if you can exclude part or all of the
on line 9a all of your taxable interest
principal place of work. The amount of benefits.
income from assets effectively
the fringe benefit compensation must Excess salary deferrals. The amount
• connected with a U.S. trade or
be reasonable and you must keep deferred should be shown in your Form
business.
records that are adequate to support W-2, box 12, and the “Retirement plan”
the fringe benefit compensation. If you received interest not
box in box 13 should be checked. If the
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
However, you may be able to use an total amount you deferred for 2007
or business, report it on Form 1040NR,
alternative basis to determine the under all plans was more than $15,500
page 4, unless it is tax exempt under a
source of your compensation if the (excluding catch-up contributions as
treaty and the withholding agent did not
alternative basis more properly explained below), include the excess on
withhold tax on the payment. If the
determines the source of the line 8. This limit is (a) $10,500 if you
interest is tax exempt under a treaty,
compensation. For 2007, if your total only have SIMPLE plans, or (b)
complete item M on page 5.
compensation is $250,000 or more and $18,500 for section 403(b) plans, if you
you allocate your compensation using qualify for the 15-year rule in Pub. 571. See Pub. 901 for a quick reference
an alternative basis, check the box in Although designated Roth contributions guide to the provisions of U.S. tax
item R on page 5. In addition, attach to are subject to this limit, do not include treaties.
Form 1040NR a statement that the excess attributable to such In addition, interest from a U.S.
contains the following information. contributions on line 8. They already bank, savings and loan association,
-10- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 11 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
credit union, or similar institution, and dividends not reported on Form Example 2. Assume the same facts
from certain deposits with U.S. 1099-DIV. as in Example 1 except that you bought
insurance companies, is tax exempt to the stock on July 5, 2007 (the day
Exception. Some dividends may
a nonresident alien if it is not effectively before the ex-dividend date), and you
be reported as qualified dividends in
connected with a U.S. trade or sold the stock on September 6, 2007.
Form 1099-DIV, box 1b, but are not
business. You held the stock for 63 days (from
qualified dividends. These include:
July 6, 2007, through September 6,
Interest credited in 2007 on deposits • Dividends you received as a 2007). The $500 of qualified dividends
that you could not withdraw because of nominee. See chapter 1 in Pub. 550.
shown in Form 1099-DIV, box 1b, are
the bankruptcy or insolvency of the • Dividends you received on any share all qualified dividends because you held
financial institution may not have to be of stock that you held for less than 61
the stock for 61 days of the 121-day
included in your 2007 income. For days during the 121-day period that
period (from July 6, 2007, through
details, see Pub. 550. began 60 days before the ex-dividend
September 4, 2007).
Line 9b— Tax-exempt interest. date. The ex-dividend date is the first
date following the declaration of a Example 3. You bought 10,000
Certain types of interest income from
dividend on which the purchaser of a shares of ABC Mutual Fund common
investments in state and municipal
stock is not entitled to receive the next stock on June 28, 2007. ABC Mutual
bonds and similar instruments are not
dividend payment. When counting the Fund paid a cash dividend of 10 cents
taxed by the United States. If you
number of days you held the stock, a share. The ex-dividend date was July
received such tax-exempt interest
include the day you disposed of the 6, 2007. The ABC Mutual Fund advises
income, report the amount on line 9b.
stock but not the day you acquired it. you that the portion of the dividend
Include any exempt-interest dividends
See the examples below. Also, when eligible to be treated as qualified
from a mutual fund or other regulated
counting the number of days you held dividends equals 2 cents per share.
investment company. Do not include
the stock, you cannot count certain Your Form 1099-DIV from ABC Mutual
interest earned on your IRA or
days during which your risk of loss was Fund shows total ordinary dividends of
Coverdell education savings account.
diminished. See Pub. 550 for more $1,000 and qualified dividends of $200.
Also do not include interest from a U.S.
details. However, you sold the 10,000 shares
bank, savings and loan association,
Dividends attributable to periods on August 1, 2007. You have no
credit union, or similar institution (or •
totaling more than 366 days that you qualified dividends from ABC Mutual
from certain deposits with U.S.
received on any share of preferred Fund because you held the ABC
insurance companies) that is exempt
stock held for less than 91 days during Mutual Fund stock for less than 61
from tax under a tax treaty or under
the 181-day period that began 90 days days.
section 871(i) because the interest is
not effectively connected with a U.S. before the ex-dividend date. When Be sure you use the Qualified
counting the number of days you heldtrade or business. Dividends and Capital Gain TaxTIP
the stock, you cannot count certain
Line 10a — Ordinary dividends. Worksheet or the Schedule D
days during which your risk of loss was
Enter your total ordinary dividends from Tax Worksheet, whichever applies, to
diminished. See Pub. 550 for more
assets effectively connected with a U.S. figure your tax. Your tax may be less.
details. Preferred dividends attributable
trade or business. Each payer should See the instructions for line 41
to periods totaling less than 367 days
send you a Form 1099-DIV. beginning on page 18 for details.
are subject to the 61-day holding period
Line 11 — Taxable refunds, credits,rule above.Capital gain distributions. If you
or offsets of state and local income• Dividends on any share of stock toreceived any capital gain distributions,
taxes. If you received a refund, credit,the extent that you are under ansee the instructions for line 14 on page
12. obligation (including a short sale) to or offset of state or local income taxes
make related payments with respect to in 2007, you may receive a Form
Nondividend distributions. Some 1099-G. If you chose to apply part or all
positions in substantially similar or
distributions are a return of your cost of the refund to your 2007 estimated
related property.
(or other basis). They will not be taxed state or local income tax, the amount
until you recover your cost (or other • Payments in lieu of dividends, but
only if you know or have reason to applied is treated as received in 2007.
basis). You must reduce your cost (or
other basis) by these distributions. After know that the payments are not For details on how to figure the
you get back all of your cost (or other qualified dividends. amount you must report as income, see
basis), you must report these Example 1. You bought 5,000 Recoveries in Pub. 525.
distributions as capital gains on shares of XYZ Corp. common stock on Line 12 — Scholarship and fellowship
Schedule D (Form 1040). For details, June 28, 2007. XYZ Corp. paid a cash grants. If you received a scholarship
see Pub. 550. dividend of 10 cents per share. The or fellowship, part or all of it may be
ex-dividend date was July 6, 2007. taxable.
Dividends on insurance policies
Your Form 1099-DIV from XYZ Corp.
TIP are a partial return of the If you were a degree candidate, the
shows $500 in box 1a (ordinary
premiums you paid. Do not amounts you used for expenses other
dividends) and in box 1b (qualified
report them as dividends. Include them than tuition and course-related
dividends). However, you sold the
in income only if they exceed the total expenses (fees, books, supplies, and
5,000 shares on August 1, 2007. You
of all net premiums you paid for the equipment) are generally taxable. For
held your shares of XYZ Corp. for only
contract. example, amounts used for room,
34 days of the 121-day period (from
board, and travel are generally taxable.
Line 10b— Qualified dividends. June 29, 2007, through August 1,
Enter your total qualified dividends on 2007). The 121-day period began on If you were not a degree candidate,
line 10b. Qualified dividends are eligible May 7, 2007 (60 days before the the full amount of the scholarship or
for a lower tax rate than other ordinary ex-dividend date), and ended on fellowship is generally taxable. Also,
income. Generally, these dividends are September 4, 2007. You have no amounts received in the form of a
shown in your Form(s) 1099-DIV, box qualified dividends from XYZ Corp. scholarship or fellowship that are
1b. See Pub. 550 for the definition of because you held the XYZ stock for payment for teaching, research, or
qualified dividends if you received less than 61 days. other services are generally taxable as
Instructions for Form 1040NR -11-Page 12 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
wages even if the services were the tax treaty, all of your scholarship • None of the Form(s) 1099-DIV or
required to get the grant. income is exempt from tax because substitute statements have an amount
ABC University is a nonprofit in box 2b (unrecaptured section 1250
If the grant was reported on
educational organization. gain), box 2c (section 1202 gain), or
Form(s) 1042-S, you must generally
box 2d (collectibles (28%) gain).Note. Many tax treaties do not permitinclude the amount shown in Form(s)
1042-S, box 2, on line 12. However, if an exemption from tax on scholarship If both of the above apply, enter your
any or all of that amount is exempt by or fellowship grant income unless the effectively connected capital gain
treaty, do not include the treaty-exempt income is from sources outside the distributions (from box 2a of Form(s)
amount on line 12. Instead, include the United States. If you are a resident of a 1099-DIV) on line 14 and check the box
treaty-exempt amount on line 22 and treaty country, you must know the on that line. If you received capital gain
complete item M on page 5 of Form terms of the tax treaty between the distributions as a nominee (that is, they
1040NR. United States and the treaty country to were paid to you but actually belong to
Attach any Form(s) 1042-S you claim treaty benefits on Form 1040NR. someone else), report on line 14 only
received from the college or institution. See the instructions for item M on page the amount that belongs to you. Attach
If you did not receive a Form 1042-S, 30 for details. a statement showing the full amount
attach a statement from the college or When completing Form 1040NR: you received and the amount you
institution (on their letterhead) showing Enter $0 on line 12. The $9,000 received as a nominee. See chapter 1
•
the details of the grant. reported to you in box 2 of of Pub. 550 for filing requirements for
Form 1042-S is reported on line 22 (not Forms 1099-DIV and 1096.
For more information about
scholarships and fellowships in general, line 12). If you do not have to file
see Pub. 970. • Enter $9,000 on line 22. TIP Schedule D (Form 1040), be
• Enter $0 on line 30. Because none of sure you use the Qualified
Example 1. You are a citizen of a
the $9,000 reported to you in box 2 of
country that has not negotiated a tax Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
Form 1042-S is included in your
treaty with the United States. You are a Worksheet on page 19 to figure your
income, you cannot exclude it on
candidate for a degree at ABC tax. Your tax may be less if you use this
line 30.
University (located in the United worksheet.
• Include on line 59 any withholding
States). You are receiving a full shown in box 7 of Form 1042-S. Line 15 — Other gains or (losses). If
scholarship from ABC University. The Provide all the required information in you sold or exchanged assets used in a
•
total amounts you received from ABC item M on page 5. U.S. trade or business, see the
University during 2007 are as follows: Instructions for Form 4797.
Line 13 — Business income or (loss).
If you operated a business or practiced Lines 16a and 16b— IRA
Tuition and fees $25,000
your profession as a sole proprietor, distributions. You should receive a
Books, supplies,
report your effectively connected Form 1099-R showing the amount of
and equipment 1,000
income and expenses on Schedule C any distribution from your individual
Room and
or Schedule C-EZ (Form 1040). retirement arrangement (IRA). Unless
board 9,000 otherwise noted in the line 16a and 16b
$35,000 Include any income you received as
instructions, an IRA includes a
a dealer in stocks, securities, and
The Form 1042-S you received from commodities through your U.S. office. If traditional IRA, Roth IRA, simplified
ABC University for 2007 shows $9,000 you dealt in these items through an employee pension (SEP) IRA, and a
in box 2 and $1,260 (14% of $9,000) in independent agent, such as a U.S. savings incentive match plan for
box 7. broker, custodian, or commissioned employees (SIMPLE) IRA. Except as
provided below, leave line 16a blank
Note. Box 2 shows only $9,000 agent, your income may not be
and enter the total distribution on
because withholding agents (such as considered effectively connected with a
line 16b.
ABC University) are not required to U.S. business.
report section 117 amounts (tuition, Line 14 — Capital gain or (loss). If Exception 1. Enter the total
fees, books, supplies, and equipment) you had effectively connected capital distribution on line 16a if you rolled over
on Form 1042-S. gains or losses, including any part or all of the distribution from one:
effectively connected capital gain • IRA to another IRA of the same type
When completing Form 1040NR:
distributions, or a capital loss carryover (for example, from one traditional IRA
• Enter on line 12 the $9,000 shown in to another traditional IRA), or
box 2 of Form 1042-S. from 2006, you must complete and
attach Schedule D (Form 1040). But • SEP or SIMPLE IRA to a traditional
• Enter $0 on line 30. Because IRA.
section 117 amounts (tuition, fees, see the Exception below. Enter the
books, supplies, and equipment) were effectively connected gain or (loss) from Also, enter “Rollover” next to line
not included in box 2 of your Form Schedule D (Form 1040) on line 14. 16b. If the total distribution was rolled
1042-S (and are not included on line 12 Gains and losses from disposing of over in a qualified rollover, enter -0- on
of Form 1040NR), you cannot exclude U.S. real property interests are reported line 16b. If the total distribution was not
any of the section 117 amounts on line on Schedule D (Form 1040) and rolled over in a qualified rollover, enter
30. included on line 14 of Form 1040NR. the part not rolled over on line 16b
• Include on line 59 the $1,260 shown See Dispositions of U.S. Real Property unless Exception 2 applies to the part
in box 7 of Form 1042-S. Interests on page 6. not rolled over. Generally, a qualified
rollover must be made within 60 days
Example 2. The facts are the same Exception. You do not have to file
after the day you received the
as in Example 1 except that you are a Schedule D (Form 1040) if both of the
distribution. For more details on
citizen of a country that has negotiated following apply.
rollovers, see Pub. 590, Individual
a tax treaty with the United States and • The only amounts you have to report
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs).
you were a resident of that country on Schedule D (Form 1040) are
immediately before leaving for the effectively connected capital gain If you rolled over the distribution (a)
United States to attend ABC University. distributions from Form(s) 1099-DIV, in 2008, or (b) from an IRA into a
Also, assume that, under the terms of box 2a, or substitute statements. qualified plan (other than an IRA),
-12- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 13 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
attach a statement explaining what you Exception 4. If the distribution is a • Corrective distributions (including any
did. qualified health savings account (HSA) earnings) of excess salary deferrals or
funding distribution (HFD), enter the excess contributions to retirement
Exception 2. If any of the following
total distribution on line 16a. If the total plans. The plan must advise you of the
apply, enter the total distribution on
amount distributed is an HFD and you year(s) the distributions are includible in
line 16a and see Form 8606 and its
elect to exclude it from income, enter income.
instructions to figure the amount to
-0- on line 16b. If only part of the
enter on line 16b. If you received a Form 1042-S
distribution is an HFD and you elect to
• You received a distribution from an TIP or 1099-R that shows federal
exclude that part from income, enter
IRA (other than a Roth IRA) and you income tax withheld, attach it to
the part that is not an HFD on line 16b
made nondeductible contributions to Form 1040NR.
unless Exception 2 applies to that part.
any of your traditional or SEP IRAs for
Enter “HFD” next to line 16b. Some annuities are tax-exempt. See
2007 or an earlier year. If you made
chapter 3 of Pub. 519.
nondeductible contributions to these An HFD is a distribution made
Note. If you performed services in thedirectly by the trustee of your IRAIRAs for 2007, also see Pub. 590.
You received a distribution from a (other than a SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to United States, your income generally is
•
Roth IRA. But if either 1 or 2 below your HSA. If eligible, you generally can effectively connected with the conduct
applies, enter -0- on line 16b; you do elect to exclude an HFD from your of a U.S. trade or business. (See
not have to see Form 8606 or its income once in your lifetime. You section 864 for details and exceptions.)
instructions. cannot exclude more than the limit on When you receive a pension in a later
HSA contributions or more than the year as a result of effectively connected
1. Distribution code T is shown in
amount that otherwise would be services, the pension also may be
Form 1099-R, box 7, and you made a
included in your income. If your IRA considered effectively connected with
contribution (including a conversion) to
includes nondeductible contributions, the conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
a Roth IRA for 2002 or an earlier year.
2. Distribution code Q is shown in the HFD is first considered to be paid Fully taxable pensions and
Form 1099-R, box 7. out of otherwise taxable income. See annuities. If your pension or annuity is
You converted part or all of a Pub. 590 for details. fully taxable, enter it on line 17b; do not
•
traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA to a The amount of an HFD reduces make an entry on line 17a. Your
payments are fully taxable if (a) you didRoth IRA in 2007. the amount you can contribute!
• You had a 2006 or 2007 IRA CAUTION to your HSA for the year. If you not contribute to the cost (defined on
contribution returned to you, with the fail to maintain eligibility for an HSA for page 14) of your pension or annuity, or
related earnings or less any loss, by the the 12 months following the month of (b) you got your entire cost back tax
due date (including extensions) of your the HFD, you may have to report the free before 2007.
tax return for that year. HFD as income and pay an additional If you received a Form RRB-1099-R,
• You made excess contributions to tax. See Form 8889, Part III. see Pub. 575 for information on how to
your IRA for an earlier year and had Note. If you received more than one report your benefits.
them returned to you in 2007. distribution, figure the taxable amount Partially taxable pensions and
• You recharacterized part or all of a of each distribution and enter the total annuities. Enter the total pension or
contribution to a Roth IRA as a of the taxable amounts on line 16b. annuity payments you received in 2007
traditional IRA contribution, or vice Enter the total amount of those on line 17a. If your Form 1042-S or
versa. distributions on line 16a. Form 1099-R does not show the
Exception 3. If the distribution is a taxable amount, you must use the
You may have to pay an
qualified charitable distribution (QCD), General Rule explained in Pub. 939,
additional tax if (a) you received enter the total distribution on line 16a. If General Rule for Pensions and!
CAUTION an early distribution from your
the total amount distributed is a QCD, Annuities, to figure the taxable part to
IRA and the total was not rolled over, or
enter -0- on line 16b. If only part of the enter on line 17b. But if your annuity
(b) you were born before July 1, 1936,
distribution is a QCD, enter the part that starting date (defined below) was after
and received less than the minimum
is not a QCD on line 16b unless July 1, 1986, see Simplified method
required distribution from your
Exception 2 applies to that part. Enter that begins below to find out if you must
traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs.
“QCD” next to line 16b. use that method to figure the taxable
See the instructions for line 55 on page
part.
A QCD is a distribution made directly 22 for details.
by the trustee of your IRA (other than a Lines 17a and 17b— Pensions and You can ask the IRS to figure the
SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to an organization annuities. Use lines 17a and 17b to taxable part for you for a $380 fee. For
eligible to receive tax-deductible report effectively connected pension details, see Pub. 939.
contributions (with certain exceptions). and annuity payments you received. If your Form 1099-R shows a taxable
You must have been at least age 70¹/² You should receive a Form 1042-S or amount, you can report that amount on
when the distribution was made. Your 1099-R showing the amount of your line 17b. But you may be able to report
total QCDs for the year cannot be more pension and annuity payments, a lower taxable amount by using the
than $100,000. The amount of the QCD including distributions from 401(k) and General Rule or the Simplified Method.
is limited to the amount that otherwise 403(b) plans. For details on rollovers If you received Form 1042-S, you must
would be included in your income. If and lump-sum distributions, see pages figure the taxable part by using the
your IRA includes nondeductible 14 and 15. But if this income is not General Rule or the Simplified Method.
contributions, the distribution first is effectively connected with your U.S.
Annuity starting date. Your
considered to be paid out of otherwise trade or business, report it on line 82.
annuity starting date is the later of the
taxable income. See Pub. 590 for
Do not include the following first day of the first period for which you
details.
payments on lines 17a and 17b. received a payment or the date the
You cannot claim a charitable Instead, report them on line 8. plan’s obligations became fixed.
! contribution deduction for any • Disability pensions received before Simplified method. You must use
CAUTION QCD not included in your you reach the minimum retirement age the Simplified Method if (a) your annuity
income. set by your employer. starting date (defined above) was after
Instructions for Form 1040NR -13-Page 14 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
July 1, 1986, and you used this method November 18, 1996, and both of the • The payments are from a qualified
last year to figure the taxable part, or following apply. employee plan, a qualified employee
(b) your annuity starting date was after annuity, or a tax-sheltered annuity.
• On your annuity starting date, either
you were under age 75 or the number
Simplified Method Worksheet — Lines
of years of guaranteed payments was
17a and 17b Keep for Your Records
fewer than 5. See Pub. 575 for the
definition of guaranteed payments.
Before you begin: If you are the beneficiary of a deceased employee or former employee
If you must use the Simplified Method,
who died before August 21, 1996, include any death benefit exclusion
that you are entitled to (up to $5,000) in the amount entered on line 2 complete the worksheet on this page to
below. figure the taxable part of your pension
or annuity. For more details on the
Simplified Method, see Pub. 575.
Note. If you had more than one partially taxable pension or annuity, figure the taxable part of each
separately. Enter the total of the taxable parts on Form 1040NR, line 17b. Enter the total pension Age (or combined ages) at annuity
or annuity payments received in 2007 on Form 1040NR, line 17a. starting date. If you are the retiree,
use your age on the annuity starting
1. Enter the total pension or annuity payments received in 2007. Also, enter this date. If you are the survivor of a retiree,
amount on Form 1040NR, line 17a 1. use the retiree’s age on his or her
2. Enter your cost in the plan at the annuity starting date 2. annuity starting date. But if your annuity
Note. If you completed this worksheet last year, skip line 3 and starting date was after 1997 and the
enter the amount from line 4 of last year’s worksheet on line 4 payments are for your life and that of
below (even if the amount of your pension or annuity has your beneficiary, use your combined
changed). Otherwise, go to line 3
ages on the annuity starting date.
3. Enter the appropriate number from Table 1 below. But if your
annuity starting date was after 1997 and the payments are for If you are the beneficiary of an
your life and that of your beneficiary, enter the appropriate employee who died, see Pub. 575. If
number from Table 2 below 3. there is more than one beneficiary, see
4. Divide line 2 by the number on line 3 4. Pub. 575 to figure each beneficiary’s
5. Multiply line 4 by the number of months for which this year’s taxable amount.
payments were made. If your annuity starting date was before
Cost. Your cost is generally your
1987, skip lines 6 and 7 and enter this amount on line 8.
net investment in the plan as of the
Otherwise, go to line 6 5.
annuity starting date. It does not
6. Enter the amount, if any, recovered tax free in years after
1986. If you completed this worksheet last year, enter the include pre-tax contributions. Your net
amount from line 10 of last year’s worksheet 6. investment should be shown in Form
7. Subtract line 6 from line 2 7. 1099-R, box 9b, for the first year you
8. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7 8. received payments from the plan. You
9. Taxable amount. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result, but not less than must figure your net investment if you
zero. Also, enter this amount on Form 1040NR, line 17b. If your Form 1042-S received Form 1042-S.
or Form 1099-R shows a larger amount, use the amount on this line instead of Rollovers. Generally, a qualified
the amount from Form 1042-S or Form 1099-R 9.
rollover is a tax-free distribution of cash
10. Was your annuity starting date before 1987?
or other assets from one retirement
 Yes. STOP Leave line 10 blank. plan that is contributed to another plan
within 60 days of receiving the
distribution. Use lines 17a and 17b to
 No. Add lines 6 and 8. This is the amount you have recovered tax
report a qualified rollover, including a
free through 2007. You will need this number when you fill out
this worksheet next year. 10. direct rollover, from one qualified
employer’s plan to another or to an IRA
Table 1 for Line 3 Above or SEP.
Enter on line 17a the total
IF the age at AND your annuity starting date was —
annuity starting distribution before income tax or other
before November 19, 1996, after November 18, 1996, deductions were withheld. This amount
date (see page
13) was . . . enter on line 3 . . . enter on line 3 . . . should be shown in Form 1099-R, box
1, or Form 1042-S, box 2. From the
55 or under 300 360
total on line 17a, subtract any
56 – 60 260 310
contributions (usually shown in box 5 of
61 – 65 240 260
Form 1099-R or figured by you if you
66 – 70 170 210
received Form 1042-S) that were
71 or older 120 160
taxable to you when made. From that
result, subtract the amount of the
Table 2 for Line 3 Above
qualified rollover. Enter the remaining
IF the combined
ages at annuity amount, even if zero, on line 17b. Also
starting date enter “Rollover” next to line 17b.
(see page 13) Special rules apply to partial
were . . . THEN enter on line 3 . . . rollovers of property. For more details
110 or under 410 on rollovers, including distributions
111 – 120 360 under qualified domestic relations
121 – 130 310 orders, see Pub. 575.
131 – 140 260 Lump-sum distributions. If you
141 or older 210 received a lump-sum distribution from a
profit-sharing or retirement plan, your
-14- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 15 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Form 1099-R should have the “Total have to be reported on Form 1040NR. You may be able to deduct expenses
distribution” box in box 2b checked. See Pub. 970. that are more than the $250 limit on
You need to determine this on your Schedule A, line 9. An eligible educator
You may have to pay an
own if you received Form 1042-S. You is a kindergarten through grade 12
additional tax if you received a may owe an additional tax if you teacher, instructor, counselor, principal,!
CAUTION taxable distribution from a
received an early distribution from a or aide in a school for at least 900
Coverdell ESA or a QTP. See the
qualified retirement plan and the total hours during a school year.
Instructions for Form 5329.
amount was not rolled over in a Qualified expenses include ordinary
qualified rollover. For details, see the Taxable distributions from a
and necessary expenses paid in
instructions for line 55 on page 22. health savings account (HSA) or an
connection with books, supplies,
Archer MSA. Distributions from an
Enter the total distribution on line HSA or an Archer MSA may be taxable equipment (including computer
17a and the taxable part on line 17b. if (a) they are more than the equipment, software, and services),
and other materials used in the
unreimbursed qualified medical
You may be able to pay less tax classroom. An ordinary expense is one
expenses of the account beneficiary or
TIP on the distribution if you were that is common and accepted in your
account holder in 2007, and (b) they
born before January 2, 1936, or educational field. A necessary expense
were not included in a qualified rollover.
you are the beneficiary of a deceased is one that is helpful and appropriate for
See Pub. 969.
employee who was born before your profession as an educator. An
January 2, 1936. For details, see Form You may have to pay an expense does not have to be required
4972. ! additional tax if you received a to be considered necessary.
CAUTION taxable distribution from an HSA
Line 20 — Unemployment Qualified expenses do not include
or Archer MSA. See the Instructions for expenses for home schooling or for
compensation. You should receive a
Form 8889 for HSAs and the nonathletic supplies for courses in
Form 1099-G showing in box 1 the total
Instructions for Form 8853 for Archer health or physical education.
unemployment compensation paid to
MSAs.
you in 2007. Report the amount in box You must reduce your qualified
1 on line 20. However, if you made Amounts deemed to be income expenses by the following amounts.
contributions to a governmental from an HSA because you did not Excludable U.S. series EE and I
remain an eligible individual during •
unemployment compensation program savings bond interest from Form 8815.
and you are not itemizing deductions, the testing period. See Form 8889, Nontaxable qualified tuition program
Part III. •
reduce the amount you report on line earnings or distributions.
20 by those contributions. Recapture of a charitable • Any nontaxable distribution of
contribution deduction relating to Coverdell education savings account
If you received an overpayment of the contribution of a fractional
earnings.
unemployment compensation in 2007 interest in tangible personal
and you repaid any of it in 2007, • Any reimbursements you received for
property. See Fractional Interest in these expenses that were not reported
subtract the amount you repaid from Tangible Personal Property in Pub. to you in Form W-2, box 1.
the total amount you received. Enter 526, Charitable Contributions. Interest
the result on line 20. Also, enter For more details, see Pub. 529.
and an additional 10% tax apply to the
“Repaid” and the amount you repaid on amount of the recapture. See the Line 25 — Health savings account
the dotted line next to line 20. If, in instructions for line 41 on page 18. (HSA) deduction. You may be able to
2007, you repaid unemployment take this deduction if contributions
Recapture of a charitable
compensation that you included in (other than employer contributions,
contribution deduction if the
gross income in an earlier year, you rollovers, and qualified HSA funding
charitable organization disposes of
can deduct the amount repaid on distributions from an IRA) were made to
the donated property within 3 years
Schedule A (Form 1040NR), line 11. your HSA for 2007. See Form 8889.
of the contribution. See Recapture if
But if you repaid more than $3,000, see
no exempt use in Pub. 526. Line 26 — Moving expenses.
Repayments in Pub. 525 for details on
Employees and self-employed persons
how to report the repayment. Canceled debts. These amounts
(including partners) can deduct certain
may be shown in box 2 of Form
Line 21 — Other income. Use this line 1099-C. See Pub. 525 or go to www.irs. moving expenses. The move must be in
to report any other income effectively gov and enter “canceled debt” or connection with employment that
connected with your U.S. business that “foreclosure” in the search box. generates effectively connected
is not reported elsewhere on your income.
Report other income on page 4 of
return or other schedules. List the type If you moved in connection with your
Form 1040NR if not effectively
and amount of income. If necessary, job or business or started a new job,
connected with a U.S. trade or
show the required information on an you may be able to take this deduction.
business.
attached statement. For more details, But your new workplace must be at
see Miscellaneous Income in Line 22 — Treaty-exempt income. least 50 miles farther from your old
Pub. 525. The following are examples Use line 22 to report your total home than your old home was from
of income to report on line 21. effectively connected income that is your old workplace. If you had no
exempt from tax by a tax treaty. Do not
Taxable distributions from a former workplace, your new workplace
include this exempt income on line 23.
Coverdell education savings account must be at least 50 miles from your old
Also, you must complete item M on
(ESA) or a qualified tuition program home. The deduction is generally
page 5 of Form 1040NR.
(QTP). Distributions from these limited to moves to or within the United
accounts may be taxable if (a) they are States or its possessions. If you meet
more than the qualified higher Adjusted Gross Income these requirements, see Pub. 521. Use
education expenses of the designated Form 3903 to figure the amount to
beneficiary in 2007, and (b) they were Line 24 — Educator expenses. If you enter on this line.
not included in a qualified rollover. were an eligible educator in 2007, you Line 27 — Self-employed SEP,
Nontaxable distributions from these can deduct on line 24 up to $250 of SIMPLE, and qualified plans. If you
accounts, including rollovers, do not qualified expenses you paid in 2007. were self-employed or a partner, you
Instructions for Form 1040NR -15-Page 16 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
may be able to take this deduction. See • Any health coverage tax credit contributions to your traditional IRA for
Pub. 560 or, if you were a minister, advance payments shown in box 1 of 2007. See Pub. 590 to figure the
Pub. 517. Form 1099-H. amount, if any, of your IRA deduction.
Were you covered by a retirement
Line 28 — Self-employed health If you qualify to take the deduction, plan? If you were covered by a
insurance deduction. If you were use the worksheet below to figure the retirement plan (qualified pension,
self-employed and had a net profit for amount you can deduct. profit-sharing (including 401(k)),
the year, you may be able to deduct the Exception. Use Pub. 535 instead annuity, SEP, SIMPLE, etc.) at work or
amount you paid for health insurance of the worksheet below to figure your through self-employment, your IRA
for yourself, your spouse, and your deduction if either of the following deduction may be reduced or
dependents. The insurance plan must applies. eliminated. But you can still make
be established under your business. contributions to an IRA even if you
• You had more than one source of
But if you were also eligible to cannot deduct them. In any case, the
income from self-employment.
participate in any subsidized health income earned on your IRA
• You are using amounts paid for
plan maintained by your or your contributions is not taxed until it is paid
qualified long-term care insurance to
spouse’s employer for any month or to you.
figure the deduction.
part of a month in 2007, amounts paid
Line 29 — Penalty on early The “Retirement plan” box in Form
for health insurance coverage for that
withdrawal of savings. The W-2, box 13, should be checked if you
month cannot be used to figure the were covered by a plan at work even if
Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID you
deduction. For example, if you were you were not vested in the plan. You
received will show the amount of any
eligible to participate in a subsidized also are covered by a plan if you were
penalty you were charged.
health plan maintained by your self-employed and had a SEP,
spouse’s employer from September 30 Line 30 — Scholarship and fellowship
SIMPLE, or qualified retirement plan.
through December 31, you cannot use grants excluded. If you received a
scholarship or fellowship grant and Special rule for married
amounts paid for health insurance
were a degree candidate, enter individuals. If you checked filing
coverage for September through
amounts used for tuition and status box 3, 4, or 5 and you were not
December to figure your deduction. For
course-related expenses (fees, books, covered by a retirement plan but your
more details, see Pub. 535.
supplies, and equipment), but only to spouse was, you are considered
the extent the amounts are included on covered by a plan unless you lived
line 12. See the examples in the apart from your spouse for all of 2007.
Note. If, during 2007, you were an
eligible trade adjustment assistance instructions for line 12 on page 12. See Pub. 590 for more details.
(TAA) recipient, alternative TAA Line 31 — IRA deduction.
You may be able to take the
recipient, or Pension Benefit Guaranty If you made any nondeductible TIP retirement savings contributions
Corporation (PBGC) pension recipient, TIP contributions to a traditional credit (saver’s credit). See the
you must complete Form 8885 before individual retirement instructions for line 48 beginning on
completing the worksheet below. When arrangement (IRA) for 2007, you must page 20.
figuring the amount to enter on line 1 of report them on Form 8606.
Line 32 — Student loan interest
the worksheet below, do not include:
If you made contributions to a deduction. You can take this
• Any amounts you included on Form traditional IRA for 2007, you may be deduction only if all of the following
8885, line 4, able to take an IRA deduction. But you apply.
• Any qualified health insurance must have had earned income to do so. • You paid interest in 2007 on a
premiums you paid to “U.S. A statement should be sent to you by qualified student loan (see below).
Treasury-HCTC,” or May 31, 2008, that shows all • You checked filing status box 1, 2, or
6.
• Your modified adjusted gross income
Self-Employed Health Insurance
(AGI) is less than $70,000. Use lines 2
Deduction Worksheet— Line 28 Keep for Your Records
through 4 of the worksheet on page 17
to figure your modified AGI.
Before you begin: H12011 If, during 2007, you were an eligible trade adjustment You are not claimed as a dependent
•
assistance (TAA) recipient, alternative TAA recipient, or on someone else’s (such as your
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) pension parent’s) 2007 tax return.
recipient, see the Note above.
H12011 Be sure you have read the Exception above to see if you Use the worksheet on page 17 to
can use this worksheet instead of Pub. 535 to figure your figure your student loan interest
deduction. deduction.
Qualified student loan. This is any
1. Enter the total amount paid in 2007 for health insurance coverage loan you took out to pay the qualified
established under your business for 2007 for you, your spouse, higher education expenses for any of
and your dependents. But do not include amounts for any month the following individuals.
you were eligible to participate in an employer-sponsored health 1. Yourself or your spouse.
plan 1. 2. Any person who was your
2. Enter your net profit and any other earned income* from the dependent when the loan was taken
business under which the insurance plan is established, minus any out.
deduction you claim on Form 1040NR, line 27 2. 3. Any person you could have
3. Self-employed health insurance deduction. Enter the smaller of claimed as a dependent for the year the
line 1 or line 2 here and on Form 1040NR, line 28 3. loan was taken out except that:
*Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of a. The person filed a joint return,
property you created. However, it does not include capital gain income. b. The person had gross income
that was equal to or more than the
-16- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 17 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
exemption amount for that year ($3,400 • Any scholarship, educational b. Any qualified film you produced;
for 2007), or assistance allowance, or other payment or
c. You could be claimed as a (but not gifts, inheritances, etc.) c. Electricity, natural gas, or potable
dependent on someone else’s return. excluded from income. water you produced in the United
States.
For more details on these expenses,
The person for whom the expenses see Pub. 970.
The deduction does not apply to
were paid must have been an eligible
income derived from:
student (see this page). However, a
An eligible student is a person who: • The sale of food and beverages you
loan is not a qualified student loan if (a)
prepare at a retail establishment;• Was enrolled in a degree, certificate,any of the proceeds were used for
• Property you leased, licensed, oror other program (including a programother purposes, or (b) the loan was
from either a related person or a person of study abroad that was approved for rented for use by any related person;
• The transmission or distribution ofcredit by the institution at which thewho borrowed the proceeds under a
qualified employer plan or a contract student was enrolled) leading to a electricity, natural gas, or potable water;
purchased under such a plan. To find recognized educational credential at an or
• The lease, rental, license, sale,eligible educational institution, andout who is a related person, see Pub.
exchange, or other disposition of land.
970. • Carried at least half the normal
full-time workload for the course of
For details, see Form 8903 and its
Qualified higher education expenses study he or she was pursuing.
instructions.
generally include tuition, fees, room and
board, and related expenses such as Line 33 — Domestic production
books and supplies. The expenses activities deduction. You may be Line 34. Include in the total on line 34
must be for education in a degree, able to deduct up to 6% of your any of the following write-in
certificate, or similar program at an qualified production activities income adjustments that are related to your
eligible educational institution. An from the following activities. effectively connected income. To find
eligible educational institution includes out if you can take the deduction, see
1. Construction of real property the form or publication indicated. On
most colleges, universities, and certain
performed in the United States. the dotted line next to line 34, enter the
vocational schools. You must reduce
amount of your deduction and identify it2. Engineering or architecturalthe expenses by the following benefits.
services performed in the United States as indicated.
• Employer-provided educational for construction of real property in the
assistance benefits that are not
United States. • Archer MSA deduction (see Form
included in Form(s) W-2, box 1.
3. Any lease, rental, license, sale, 8853). Identify as “MSA.”
• Excludable U.S. series EE and I exchange, or other disposition of: • Performing-arts-related expenses
savings bond interest from Form 8815. (see Form 2106 or 2106-EZ). Identify
a. Tangible personal property,
• Any nontaxable distribution of computer software, and sound as “QPA.”
qualified tuition program earnings. recordings that you manufactured, • Reforestation amortization and
expenses (see Pub. 535). Identify as
• Any nontaxable distribution of produced, grew, or extracted in whole
“RFST.”
Coverdell education savings account or in significant part within the United
earnings. States; • Repayment of supplemental
unemployment benefits under the
Trade Act of 1974 (see Pub. 525).
Student Loan Interest Deduction Identify as “Sub-Pay TRA.”
Worksheet — Line 32 Keep for Your Records • Contributions to section
501(c)(18)(D) pension plans (see Pub.
Before you begin: H12011 Figure any amount to be entered on the dotted line next 525). Identify as “501(c)(18)(D).”
to line 34 (see the instructions for line 34 on this page). • Contributions by certain chaplains to
H12011 See the instructions for line 32 that begin on page 16. section 403(b) plans (see Pub. 517).
Identify as “403(b).”
1. Enter the total interest you paid in 2007 on qualified student loans • Attorney fees and court costs for
(see page 16). Do not enter more than $2,500 1. actions settled or decided after October
2. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 23 2. 22, 2004, involving certain unlawful
discrimination claims, but only to the
3. Enter the total of the amounts from Form 1040NR,
extent of effectively connected gross
lines 24 through 31, plus any write-in adjustments
income from such actions (see Pub.
you entered on the dotted line next to line 34 3.
525). Identify as “UDC.”
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 4.
• Attorney fees and court costs paid by
5. Is line 4 more than $55,000?
you in connection with an award from
❏ No. Skip lines 5 and 6, enter -0- on line 7, and go the IRS for information you provided
to line 8. after December 19, 2006, that
❏ Yes. Subtract $55,000 from line 4 5. substantially contributed to the
6. Divide line 5 by $15,000. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at detection of tax law violations, up to the
least three places). If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 6. . amount of the award includible in your
7. Multiply line 1 by line 6 7. gross income. Identify as “WBF.”
8. Student loan interest deduction. Subtract line 7 from line 1. Enter
the result here and on Form 1040NR, line 32. Do not include this Line 35 — Adjusted gross income. If
amount in figuring any other deduction on your return (such as on line 35 is less than zero, you may have
Schedule A (Form 1040NR), Schedule C (Form 1040), Schedule E a net operating loss that you can carry
(Form 1040), etc.) 8. to another tax year. See Form 1045
and its instructions for details.
Instructions for Form 1040NR -17-Page 18 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
connected with a U.S. trade or box 3, 4, or 5; or $234,600 if you
Tax Computation on business. checked filing status box 6.
Estates. If you are filing for an
Income Effectively estate, enter $600 on line 39.
Individuals. If you are a
Trusts. If you are filing for a trustnonresident alien individual, multiplyConnected With A U.S.
$3,400 by the total number of whose governing instrument requires it
Trade or Business exemptions entered on line 7d. If you to distribute all of its income currently,
were a resident of the Republic of enter $300 on line 39. If you are filing
Line 37 — Itemized deductions. for a qualified disability trust (defined in
Korea (South Korea), you must figure
Enter the total itemized deductions from section 642(b)(2)(C)(ii)), enter $3,400
the exemptions for your spouse and
line 17 of Schedule A on page 3 of the on line 39. But if the qualified disability
children according to the proportion
form. trust’s modified AGI (determined under
your U.S. effectively connected income
section 67(e) without regard to sectionbears to your total income. You alsoNote. Residents of India who were
642(b)) is more than $156,400, use the
students or business apprentices may must complete item I on page 5 of the
worksheet on this page to figure the
be able to take the standard deduction form. (For details, see Pub. 519.) But
amount to enter on line 39. If you are
instead of their itemized deductions. use the worksheet on this page to
filing for any other trust, enter $100 on
See Pub. 519 for details. figure the amount, if any, to enter on
line 39.
line 39 if your adjusted gross income
Line 41 — Tax. Include in the total onfrom line 36 is more than $156,400 ifLine 39 — Deduction for exemptions.
You can claim exemptions only to the you checked filing status box 1 or 2; line 41 all of the following taxes that
extent of your income that is effectively $117,300 if you checked filing status apply.
• Tax on your taxable income. Figure
the tax using one of the methods
Deduction for Exemptions described on this page and the next
Worksheet — Line 39 page.
See the instructions for line 39 on page • Tax from Form 8814 (relating to the
18. Keep for Your Records election to report child’s interest or
dividends). Check the appropriate box.
Caution: If you are filing for a qualified disability trust (on this page), use this • Tax from Form 4972 (relating to
worksheet only if the trust’s modified AGI* is more than $156,400. Also, skip line 1, lump-sum distributions). Check the
enter $3,400 on line 2, enter the trust’s modified AGI on line 3, and enter $156,400 on appropriate box.
line 4. • Tax from Form 8889, Part III (relating
to health savings accounts). Check the
1. Is the amount on Form 1040NR, line 36, more than the amount shown on line 4
appropriate box.
below for your filing status?
• Additional tax on recapture of a
❏ No. Stop. Multiply $3,400 by the total number of exemptions charitable contribution deduction
claimed on Form 1040NR, line 7d, and enter the relating to the contribution of a
result on Form 1040NR, line 39. fractional interest in tangible personal
❏ Yes. Go to line 2. property. See the instructions for line
2. Multiply $3,400 by the total number of exemptions claimed on 21 on page 15. Enter the amount and
Form 1040NR, line 7d 2. “FITPP” in the space next to line 41.
3. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 36 . . . 3. Tax Table or Tax Computation
4. Enter the amount shown below for the filing status Worksheet. If you are filing for an
box you checked on page 1 of Form 1040NR: estate or trust, use the Tax Rate
• Box 1 or 2, enter $156,400 Schedules on page 47.
Box 3, 4, or 5, enter $117,300 Individuals. If your taxable income
•
(line 40) is less than $100,000, you
• Box 6, enter $234,600 4.
must use the Tax Table that begins on
5. Subtract line 4 from line 3. 5.
page 34 to figure your tax. Be sure you
6. Is line 5 more than $122,500 ($61,250 if you use the correct column. If you checked
checked filing status box 3, 4, or 5)? filing status box 3, 4, or 5, you must use
H18554 Yes. Multiply $1,133 by the total number of the Married filing separately column. If
exemptions claimed on Form 1040NR, your taxable income is $100,000 or
line 7d. Enter the result here and on more, use the Tax Computation
Form 1040NR, line 39. Do not complete Worksheet on page 46.
the rest of this worksheet.
Exception. Do not use the Tax Table,
H18554 No. Divide line 5 by $2,500 ($1,250 if Tax Computation Worksheet, or Tax
you checked filing status box 3, 4, Rate Schedules to figure your tax if
or 5). If the result is not a whole either of the following applies.
number, increase it to the next You are required to figure your tax
•
higher whole number (for example, using Form 8615, the Qualified
increase 0.0004 to 1) 6. Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
7. Multiply line 6 by 2% (.02) and enter the result as a decimal 7. . Worksheet on page 19, or the Schedule
8. Multiply line 2 by line 7 8. D Tax Worksheet.
9. Divide line 8 by 1.5 9. • You use Schedule J (Form 1040) (for
10. Deduction for exemptions. Subtract line 9 from line 2. Enter the farming or fishing income) to figure your
result here and on Form 1040NR, line 39 10. tax.
*Figure the trust’s modified AGI by applying section 67(e) without regard to section Form 8615. You generally must use
642(b). Form 8615 to figure the tax for any
child who was under age 18 at the end
-18- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 19 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
of 2007, and who had more than • You do not have to file Schedule D credit, you must complete Form 6251.
$1,700 of investment income, such as (Form 1040) and you reported capital Otherwise, to see if you should
taxable interest, ordinary dividends, or gain distributions on Form 1040NR, line complete Form 6251, add the amount
capital gains (including capital gain 14. on line 38 of Form 1040NR to the
distributions), that is effectively • You are filing Schedule D and amounts on lines 3 and 15 of Schedule
connected with a U.S. trade or Schedule D, lines 15 and 16, are both A (Form 1040NR). If the total is more
business. But if the child files a joint more than zero. than the dollar amount shown below
return for 2007 or if neither of the that applies to you, fill in Form 6251.
Schedule J (Form 1040). If you had
child’s parents was alive at the end of income from farming or fishing, your tax • $33,750 if you checked filing status
2007, do not use Form 8615 to figure box 1 or 2.
may be less if you choose to figure it
the child’s tax. Also, a child born on using income averaging on Schedule J. • $22,500 if you checked filing status
January 1, 1990, is considered to be box 3, 4, or 5.
age 18 at the end of 2007. Do not use Line 42 — Alternative minimum tax. • $45,000 if you checked filing status
Form 8615 for such a child. The tax law gives special treatment to box 6.
some kinds of income and allows
Schedule D Tax Worksheet. If you special deductions and credits for some At the time these instructions
have to file Schedule D (Form 1040) kinds of expenses. If you benefit from ! went to print, Congress was
and Schedule D, line 18 or line 19, is these provisions, you may have to pay CAUTION considering legislation that
more than zero, use the Schedule D a minimum amount of tax through the would increase the amounts above. To
Tax Worksheet on page D-10 of the alternative minimum tax. This tax is find out if this legislation was enacted,
Instructions for Schedule D to figure figured on Form 6251 for individuals. If and for more details, see the
your tax. you are filing for an estate or trust, see Instructions for Form 6251.
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Schedule I (Form 1041) and its Disposition of U.S. real property
Tax Worksheet. If you do not have to instructions to find out if you owe this interests. If you disposed of a U.S.
use the Schedule D Tax Worksheet tax. real property interest at a gain, you
(see above) and any of the following If you have any of the adjustments or must make a special computation to
apply, use the worksheet below to preferences from the list on this page see if you owe this tax. For details, see
figure your tax. and the next page or you are claiming a the Instructions for Form 6251.
• You reported qualified dividends on net operating loss deduction, a general Adjustments and Preferences:
Form 1040NR, line 10b. business credit, or the foreign tax • Accelerated depreciation.
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet — Line 41 Keep for Your Records
Before you begin: H12011 See the instructions for line 41 that begin on page 18 to see if you can use this worksheet to figure
your tax.
H12011 If you do not have to file Schedule D (Form 1040) and you received capital gain distributions, be sure
you checked the box on line 14 of Form 1040NR.
1. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 40 1.
2. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 10b 2.
3. Are you filing Schedule D (Form 1040)?
❏ Yes. Enter the smaller of line 15 or 16 of Schedule D. If either }
line 15 or line 16 is a loss, enter -0-. 3.
❏ No. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 14.
4. Add lines 2 and 3 4.
5. Subtract line 4 from line 1. If zero or less, enter -0- 5.
6. Enter the smaller of:
• The amount on line 1, or
• $31,850 if you checked filing status box 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; or }
 $63,700 if you checked filing status box 6 . 6.
7. Is the amount on line 5 equal to or more than the amount on
line 6?
❏ Yes. Skip lines 7 through 9; go to line 10 and check the “No” box.
❏ No. Enter the amount from line 5 7.
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6 8.
9. Multiply line 8 by 5% (.05) 9.
10. Are the amounts on lines 4 and 8 the same?
❏ Yes. Skip lines 10 through 13; go to line 14.
❏ No. Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 4 10.
11. Enter the amount from line 8 (if line 8 is blank, enter -0-) 11.
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. 12.
13. Multiply line 12 by 15% (.15) 13.
14. Figure the tax on the amount on line 5. Use the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet, whichever applies* 14.
15. Add lines 9,13, and 14 15.
16. Figure the tax on the amount on line 1. Use the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet, whichever applies* 16.
17. Tax on all taxable income. Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 here and on Form 1040NR, line 41 17.
*Estates and trusts must use the Tax Rate Schedules.
Instructions for Form 1040NR -19-Page 20 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• Stock by exercising an incentive You also may be able to claim this 6. All of your foreign taxes were:
stock option and you did not dispose of credit for the cost of any of the following a. Legally owed and not eligible for
the stock in the same year. items if the items meet certain a refund, and
• Tax-exempt interest from private performance and quality standards. b. Paid to countries that are
activity bonds. • Certain electric heat pump water recognized by the United States and do
• Intangible drilling, circulation, heaters, electric heat pumps, not support terrorism.
research, experimental, or mining geothermal heat pumps, central air
costs. conditioners, and natural gas, propane, Note. If you need more information
• Amortization of pollution-control or oil water heaters. about these requirements, see the
facilities or depletion. • A qualified natural gas, propane, or Instructions for Form 1116.
• Income or (loss) from tax-shelter oil furnace or hot water boiler.
If you meet all six requirements, see
farm activities or passive activities. • An advanced main air circulating fan
Election To Claim the Foreign Tax
• Income from long-term contracts not used in a natural gas, propane, or oil
Credit Without Filing Form 1116 in the
figured using the furnace.
Instructions for Form 1116 to figure the
percentage-of-completion method. For details, see Form 5695.
amount to enter on Form 1040NR, line
• Alternative minimum tax adjustments Residential energy efficient 46. If you do not meet all six
from an estate, trust, electing large property credit. You may be able to requirements, see Form 1116 to find
partnership, or cooperative. take this credit if you paid for any of the
out if you can take the credit.
• Section 1202 exclusion. following during 2007.
Credit for child and dependent care Line 47 — Child tax credit. This credit
• • Qualified solar electric property for
expenses. is for people who have a qualifying
use in your home located in the United
• Residential energy credits. States. child as defined below. It is in addition
• Mortgage interest credits. Qualified solar water heating property to the credit for child and dependent
D.C. first-time homebuyer credit. • care expenses on Form 1040NR, line
• for use in your home located in the
• Any general business credit claimed United States. 44.
on Form 3800. Qualified fuel cell property installed Three steps to take the child tax
•
• Empowerment zone and renewal on or in connection with your main credit.
community employment credit. home located in the United States. 1. Make sure you have a qualifying
• Qualified electric vehicle credit. For details, see Form 5695. child for the child tax credit (defined
• Alternative motor vehicle credit. Special rule. If you are a member below).
• Alternative fuel vehicle refueling of a condominium management 2. Make sure for each qualifying
property credit. child you either checked the box on
association for a condominium you own
• Credit for prior year minimum tax. or a tenant-stockholder in a cooperative Form 1040NR, line 7c, column (4), or
Form 6251 should be filled in for housing corporation, you are treated as completed Form 8901 (if the child is not
your dependent).having paid your proportionate share ofa child who was under age 18 at!
3. Answer the questions in the Whoany costs of such association orthe end of 2007 if the child’sCAUTION
adjusted gross income from Form corporation for purposes of these Must Use Pub. 972 chart on page 21 to
1040NR, line 36, exceeds the child’s credits. see if you can use the Child Tax Credit
Worksheet on page 21 or if you must
earned income by more than $6,300. Line 46 — Foreign tax credit. If you
use Pub. 972.
paid income tax to a foreign country,
you may be able to take this credit, but Qualifying child for child tax
Credits only if you: credit. A qualifying child for purposes
1. Report income from foreign of the child tax credit is a child who:
Line 44 — Credit for child and
sources (see Foreign Income Taxed by • Was under age 17 at the end of
dependent care expenses. You may
the United States on page 6), and 2007.
be able to take this credit if you paid
2. Have paid or owe foreign tax on • Is your son, daughter, stepchild,
someone to care for your qualifying
that income. foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother,
child under age 13 or your dependent
stepsister, or a descendant of any of
or spouse who could not care for Generally, you must complete and
them (for example, your grandchild,
himself or herself. For details, see the attach Form 1116 to take this credit.
niece, or nephew).
Instructions for Form 2441.
Exception. You do not have to • Is a U.S. citizen, a U.S. national, or a
Line 45 — Residential energy credits. complete Form 1116 to take this credit resident alien.
Complete Form 5695 to claim either of if all six of the following apply. • Did not provide over half of his or her
the following credits. 1. Form 1040NR is being filed for a own support for 2007.
Nonbusiness energy property nonresident alien individual and not an • Lived with you for more than half of
credit. You may be able to take this estate or trust. 2007. Temporary absences, such as for
credit for any of the following 2. All of your gross foreign source school, vacation, or medical care, count
improvements to your main home income is from the passive category as time lived in the home.
located in the United States in 2007 if (which includes most interest and An adopted child is always treated as
they are new and meet certain dividend income). your own child. An adopted child
requirements for energy efficiency. 3. All the income and any foreign includes a child lawfully placed with you
• Any insulation material or system taxes paid on it were reported to you on for legal adoption.
primarily designed to reduce heat gain qualified payee statements, such as Line 48 — Retirement savings
or loss in your home. Form 1099-INT, Form 1099-DIV, or contributions credit (saver’s credit).
• Exterior windows (including similar substitute statements. You may be able to take this credit if
skylights). 4. If you have dividend income from you made (a) contributions to a
• Exterior doors. shares of stock, you held those shares traditional or Roth IRA; (b) elective
• A metal roof with pigmented coatings for at least 16 days. deferrals to a 401(k) or 403(b) plan
primarily designed to reduce heat gain 5. The total of your foreign taxes is (including designated Roth
in your home. not more than $300. contributions) or to a governmental 457,
-20- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 21 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Who Must Use Pub. 972 are partners, self-employed, or who
have rental property. See Form 3800 or
1. Is the amount on Form 1040NR, line 36, more than the amount shown below for Pub. 334.
your filing status? Empowerment zone and renewal
•
• Filing status 1, 2, or 6—$75,000 community employment credit. See
• Filing status 3, 4, or 5—$55,000 Form 8844.
❏ Yes. Stop. You must use Pub. 972 to figure your credit. • Credit for alcohol used as fuel. See
❏ No. Go to line 2. Form 6478.
2. Are you claiming any of the following credits? Renewable electricity, refined coal,
•
• Residential energy credits, Form 5695. and Indian coal production credit for
Retirement savings contributions credit, Form 8880. electricity and refined coal produced at
•
facilities placed in service after October
• Mortgage interest credit, Form 8396.
22, 2004, and Indian coal produced at
• District of Columbia first-time homebuyer credit, Form 8859. facilities placed in service after August
• Adoption credit, Form 8839. 8, 2005. See Form 8835, Section B.
❏ Yes. Stop. You must use Pub. 972 to figure your child tax credit. You also will Work opportunity credit. See Form
•
need the form(s) listed above for any credit(s) you are claiming.
5884.
❏ No. Use the worksheet on this page to figure your child tax credit.
• Credit for employer social security
and Medicare taxes paid on certain
SEP, or SIMPLE plan; (c) voluntary credit, see the form or publication tips. See Form 8846.
employee contributions to a qualified indicated.
• New York Liberty Zone business
retirement plan (including the federal • Credit for prior year minimum tax. If
employee credit. If you have a
Thrift Savings Plan); or (d) contributions you paid alternative minimum tax in a
carryforward of this credit, see Form
to a 501(c)(18)(D) plan. prior year, see Form 8801.
5884.
 However, you cannot take the credit • Qualified electric vehicle credit. This
credit does not apply to vehicles placed • Clean renewable energy bond credit.
if either of the following applies.
in service after 2006. However, you See Form 8912.
• The amount on Form 1040NR, line
36, is more than $26,000. may be able to take the credit if you • Credit for Gulf tax credit bonds. See
The person(s) who made the received a 2006 Schedule K-1 showing Form 8912.
• the credit from an entity with a fiscal
qualified contribution or elective deferral • Alternative motor vehicle credit. If
year ending in 2007 or have an
(a) was born after January 1, 1990, (b) you placed an alternative motor vehicle
unallowed passive activity credit from a
is claimed as a dependent on someone (such as a qualified hybrid vehicle) in
prior year. See Form 8834.
else’s 2007 tax return, or (c) was a service during 2007, see Form 8910.
student (defined below). • General business credit. This credit
consists of a number of credits that • Alternative fuel vehicle refueling
You were a student if during any part usually apply only to individuals who property credit. See Form 8911.
of 5 calendar months of 2007 you:
• Were enrolled as a full-time student
Child Tax Credit Worksheet — Line 47 Keep for Your Records
at a school, or
• Took a full-time, on-farm training
course given by a school or a state, • To be a qualifying child for the child tax credit, the child must be under
county, or local government agency. A ! age 17 at the end of 2007 and meet the other requirements listed in the
school includes a technical, trade, and CAUTION instructions for line 47 on page 20.
mechanical school. It does not include • Do not use this worksheet if you answered “Yes” to question 1 or 2 in
an on-the-job training course, Who Must Use Pub. 972 above. Instead, use Pub. 972.
correspondence school, or school
offering courses only through the 1. Number of qualifying children: X $1,000.
Internet. Enter the result 1.
For more details, see Form 8880. 2. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 43 2.
Line 49. Include the following credits 3. Enter the total of the amounts from Form 1040NR, lines
on line 49 and check the appropriate 44 and 46 3.
box(es). To find out if you can take the 4. Are the amounts on lines 2 and 3 the same?
credit, see the form indicated. Yes. STOP. You cannot take this credit because there is no tax to
• Mortgage interest credit. If a state or reduce. However, you may be able to take the additional child tax
local government gave you a mortgage credit. See the TIP below.
credit certificate, see Form 8396. No. Subtract line 3 from line 2 4.
• District of Columbia first-time 5. Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 4?
homebuyer credit. See Form 8859. Yes. Enter the amount from line 4. Also, you may be able to take
• Adoption credit. If you paid expenses the additional child tax credit. See the TIP below.
to adopt a child or you adopted a child No. Enter the amount from line 1 5.
with special needs and the adoption This is your child tax credit. Enter this amount on Form 1040NR,
became final in 2007, see the line 47.
Instructions for Form 8839.
TIP: You may be able to take the additional child tax credit on Form 1040NR,
Line 50 — Other credits. Include the
line 62, if you answered “Yes” on line 4 or line 5 above.
following credits on line 50 and check
the appropriate box(es). If box c is • First, complete your Form 1040NR through line 61.
checked, also enter the applicable form • Then, use Form 8812 to figure any additional child tax credit.
number. To find out if you can take the
Instructions for Form 1040NR -21-Page 22 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
part of the distribution you reported on include wages paid by check, money
Other Taxes Form 1040NR, line 16b or line 17b, or order, etc.
on Form 4972. Also, enter “No” on the 2. You withheld federal income tax
Line 54 — Unreported social security dotted line next to line 55 to indicate during 2007 at the request of any
and Medicare tax from Forms 4137 that you do not have to file Form 5329. household employee.
and 8919. Enter the total of any taxes But if distribution code 1 is incorrectly 3. You paid total cash wages of
from Form 4137 and Form 8919. Check shown in Form 1099-R, box 7, you $1,000 or more in any calendar quarter
the appropriate box(es). received a Form 1042-S for the of 2006 or 2007 to household
Form 4137. If you received tips of distribution, or you qualify for an employees.
$20 or more in any month and you did exception for qualified higher education
not report the full amount to your expenses or qualified first-time For purposes of item 1, do not
employer, you must pay the social homebuyer distributions, you must file TIP count amounts paid to an
security and Medicare or railroad Form 5329. employee who was under age
retirement (RRTA) tax on the 18 at any time in 2007 and was a
Line 56 — Transportation tax.
unreported tips. You must also pay this student.
Nonresident alien individuals are
tax if your Form(s) W-2 shows allocated subject to a 4% tax on U.S. source Household employee. Any person
tips that you are including in your gross transportation income that is not who does household work is a
income on Form 1040NR, line 8. effectively connected with a U.S. trade household employee if you can control
To figure the social security and or business. However, the term U.S. what will be done and how it will be
Medicare tax, use Form 4137. If you source gross transportation income done. Household work includes work
owe RRTA tax, contact your employer. does not include any such income that done in or around your home by
Your employer will figure and collect the is taxable in a possession of the United babysitters, nannies, health aides,
RRTA tax. States under the provisions of the maids, yard workers, and similar
Internal Revenue Code as applied to domestic workers.
You may be charged a penalty
that possession. Line 58 — Total tax. Include in the
! equal to 50% of the social
total on line 58 any of the following
CAUTION security and Medicare tax due For purposes of this tax,
taxes. To find out if you owe the tax,
on tips you received but did not report transportation income will be treated as
see the form or publication indicated.
to your employer. not effectively connected with the
On the dotted line next to line 58, enter
Form 8919. If you are an employee conduct of a trade or business in the
the amount of the tax and identify it as
who received wages from an employer United States unless:
indicated.
who did not withhold social security and 1. You had a fixed place of business
Additional taxes on the following.
Medicare tax from your wages, use in the United States involved in the
Form 8919 to figure your share of the earning of transportation income, and • Health savings account distributions
(see Form 8889, Part II). Identify as
unreported tax. Include on line 54 the 2. At least 90% of your U.S. source
“HSA.”
amount from line 13 of Form 8919. gross transportation income was
Include the amount from line 6 of Form attributable to regularly scheduled • Archer MSA distributions (see Form
8853). Identify as “MSA.”
8919 on Form 1040NR, line 8. transportation. Or, in the case of
• Medicare Advantage MSA
Line 55 — Additional tax on IRAs, income from the leasing of a vessel or
distributions (see Form 8853). Identify
other qualified retirement plans, etc. aircraft, it was attributable to a fixed
as “Med MSA.”
If any of the following apply, see Form place of business in the United States.
5329 and its instructions to find out if See sections 887 and 863 for rules, Recapture of the following credits.
• Investment credit (see Form 4255).definitions, and exceptions.you owe this tax and if you must file
Identify as “ICR.”
Form 5329.
You may be exempt from this tax • Low-income housing credit (see
1. You received an early distribution Form 8611). Identify as “LIHCR.”
because of a treaty or an exchange of
from (a) an IRA or other qualified Qualified electric vehicle credit (see
notes between the United States and •
retirement plan, (b) an annuity, Form 8834). Identify as “QEVCR.”
the country of which you are a resident.
or (c) a modified endowment contract Indian employment credit (see Form
If the country of which you are a •
entered into after June 20, 1988, and 8845). Identify as “IECR.”
resident does not impose tax on the
the total distribution was not rolled over New markets credit (see Form 8874).
shipping or aircraft income of U.S. •
in a qualified rollover contribution. Identify as “NMCR.”
persons, you may also be exempt from
2. Excess contributions were made Credit for employer-provided
this tax. If you are exempt from the tax •
to your IRAs, Coverdell education childcare facilities and services (see
for one of these reasons, you must
savings accounts (ESAs), Archer Form 8882). Identify as “ECCFR.”
attach a statement to Form 1040NR
MSAs, or health savings accounts. Alternative motor vehicle credit (see
identifying your country of residence •
3. You received taxable distributions Form 8910). Identify as “AMVCR.”
and the treaty, note, or law and
from Coverdell ESAs or qualified tuition Alternative fuel vehicle refueling
provisions under which you claim •
programs. property credit (see Form 8911).
exemption from the tax.
4. You were born before July 1, Identify as “ARPCR.”
1936, and did not take the minimum If you owe this tax, you must attach
Recapture of federal mortgage
required distribution from your IRA or a statement to your return that includes
subsidy. If you sold your home in
other qualified retirement plan. the information described in Pub. 519.
2007 and it was financed (in whole or in
Exception. If only item (1) applies Line 57 — Household employment part) from the proceeds of any
to you and distribution code 1 is taxes. If any of the following apply, tax-exempt qualified mortgage bond or
correctly shown in your Form 1099-R, see Schedule H (Form 1040) and its you claimed the mortgage interest
box 7, you do not have to file Form instructions to find out if you owe these credit, see Form 8828. Identify as
5329. Instead, multiply the taxable taxes. “FMSR.”
amount of the distribution by 10% (.10) 1. You paid any one household Section 72(m)(5) excess benefits
and enter the result on line 55. The employee (defined below) cash wages tax. (See Pub. 560.) Identify as
taxable amount of the distribution is the of $1,500 or more in 2007. Cash wages “Sec. 72(m)(5).”
-22- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 23 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Uncollected social security and If you received a 2007 Form 1099 Line 63 — Amount paid with
Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or showing federal income tax withheld on Form 4868 (request for extension).
group-term life insurance. This tax dividends, taxable or tax-exempt If you filed Form 4868 to get an
should be shown in your Form W-2, interest income, or other income you automatic extension of time to file Form
box 12, with codes A and B or M and N. received, include the amount withheld 1040NR, enter any amount you paid
Identify as “UT.” in the total on line 59. This should be with that form or by electronic funds
Golden parachute payments. If shown in Form 1099, box 4. withdrawal or credit card. If you paid by
you received an excess parachute credit card, do not include on line 63
Do not include on line 59 the convenience fee you were charged.
payment (EPP), you must pay a 20%
tax on it. This tax should be shown in ! amounts withheld on income not Line 64 — Other payments. Check
CAUTION effectively connected with a
your Form W-2, box 12, with code K. If the box(es) on line 64 to report any
U.S. trade or business. Those amounts
you received a Form 1099-MISC, the credit from Form 2439, 4136, or 8885.
should be reported in column (a) on
tax is 20% of the EPP shown in box 13. Line 65 — Credit for amount paid with
page 4. They are then carried over to
Identify as “EPP.” page 2, line 66. Form 1040-C. Enter any amount you
Tax on accumulation distribution paid with Form 1040-C for 2007.
of trusts. Enter the amount from Form Line 60 — 2007 estimated tax
Line 66 — U.S. tax withheld at source.
4970 and identify as “ADT.” payments. Enter any estimated
Enter on line 66 the amount you show
federal income tax payments you made
Excise tax on insider stock on page 4, line 86. Be sure to attach a
using Form 1040-ES (NR) for 2007.
compensation from an expatriated copy of all Form(s) 1042-S,
Include any overpayment from your
corporation. You may owe a 15% SSA-1042S, RRB-1042S, or similar
2006 return that you applied to your
excise tax on the value of nonstatutory form(s).
2007 estimated tax.
stock options and certain other
Lines 67a and 67b— U.S. tax
stock-based compensation held by you Name change. If you changed your withheld at source by partnerships
or a member of your family from an name because of marriage, divorce, under section 1446. Enter on line 67a
expatriated corporation or its expanded etc., and you made estimated tax any tax withheld by a partnership
affiliated group in which you were an payments using your former name, shown on Form(s) 8805. Enter on
officer, director, or more-than-10% attach a statement to the front of Form line 67b any tax withheld by a
owner. See section 4985. Identify as 1040NR. On the statement, list all of partnership shown on Form(s) 1042-S.
“ISC.” the payments you made in 2007 and Be sure to attach a copy of all Form(s)
Additional tax on income you show the name(s) and identifying 8805 and 1042-S.
received from a nonqualified number(s) under which you made them.
Lines 68a and 68b— U.S. tax
deferred compensation plan that Line 61 — Excess social security and withheld on dispositions of U.S. real
fails to meet certain requirements. tier 1 RRTA tax withheld. If you had property interests. Enter on line 68a
This income should be shown in Form more than one employer for 2007 and any tax withheld on dispositions of U.S.
W-2, box 12, with code Z, or in Form total wages of more than $97,500, too real property interests from Form(s)
1099-MISC, box 15b. The tax is 20% of much social security or tier 1 railroad 8288-A. Enter on line 68b any tax
the amount required to be included in retirement (RRTA) tax may have been withheld on dispositions of U.S. real
income plus an interest amount withheld. You can take a credit on this property interests from Form(s) 1042-S.
determined under section line for the amount withheld in excess Be sure to attach a copy of all Form(s)
409A(a)(1)(B)(ii). See section of $6,045. But if any one employer 8288-A and 1042-S.
409A(a)(1)(B) for details. Identify as withheld more than $6,045, you cannot
“NQDC.” Line 69 — Refundable credit for prior
claim the excess on your return. The
year minimum tax. If you have an
Interest on the tax due on employer should adjust the tax for you.
unused minimum tax credit
installment income from the sale of If the employer does not adjust the
carryforward from 2004, you may be
certain residential lots and overcollection, you can file a claim for
able to claim at least part of it as a
timeshares. Identify as “453(l)(3).” refund using Form 843.
refundable credit. Enter on line 69 the
Interest on the deferred tax on You cannot claim a refund for amount, if any, from Form 8801, line
gain from certain installment sales excess tier 2 RRTA tax on Form 27.
with a sales price over $150,000. 1040NR. Instead, use Form 843.
Identify as “453A(c).”
For more details, see Pub. 505. Refund
Line 62 — Additional child tax credit.
Payments Line 71 — Amount overpaid. If
This credit is for certain people who
line 71 is under $1, we will send a
Line 59 — Federal income tax have at least one qualifying child as refund only on written request.
withheld. Enter all federal income tax defined in the instructions for line 47 on
withheld on your effectively connected page 20. The additional child tax credit If the amount you overpaid is
income from Forms W-2 and 1099-R. may give you a refund even if you do TIP large, you may be able to
The amount withheld should be shown not owe any tax. decrease the amount of income
in Form W-2, box 2, and in Form tax withheld from your pay by filing a
To take the credit:
1099-R, box 4. If line 59 includes new Form W-4. See Income Tax
1. Be sure you figured the amount, Withholding and Estimated Tax
amounts withheld as shown on Form
if any, of your child tax credit. See the Payments for Individuals for 2008 on
1099-R, attach the Form 1099-R to the
instructions for line 47 on page 20. page 30.
front of your return. Also, include in the
2. Read the TIP at the end of your
total for line 59 any tax withheld from Refund offset. If you owe past-due
Child Tax Credit Worksheet on page
Form 1042-S, box 7, that was withheld federal tax, state income tax, child
21. Use Form 8812 to see if you can
on: support, spousal support, or certain
take the additional child tax credit, but
• Scholarship or fellowship grants, or federal nontax debts, such as student
only if you meet the conditions given in
• Pensions that you included on line loans, all or part of the overpayment on
that TIP.
17a or 17b. line 71 may be used (offset) to pay the
Instructions for Form 1040NR -23-Page 24 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
past-due amount. Offsets for federal Note. If you do not want your refund must check the correct box to ensure
taxes are made by the IRS. All other directly deposited to your account, do your deposit is accepted.
offsets are made by the Treasury not check the box on line 72a. Draw a
Department’s Financial Management line through the boxes on lines 72b and Line 72d. The account number
Service (FMS). For federal tax offsets, 72d. can be up to 17 characters (both
you will receive a notice from the IRS. numbers and letters). Include hyphens
For all other offsets, you will receive a The IRS is not responsible for a but omit spaces and special symbols.
notice from FMS. To find out if you may Enter the number from left to right andlost refund if you enter the!
have an offset or if you have any leave any unused boxes blank. On thewrong account information.CAUTION
questions about it, contact the Check with your financial institution to sample check below, the account
agency(ies) to which you owe the debt. get the correct routing and account number is 20202086. Do not include
Lines 72a through 72d — Direct numbers and to make sure your direct the check number.
deposit of refund. deposit will be accepted. Do not use
the routing number on a deposit slip if it Individual Retirement Arrangement
DIRECT DEPOSIT is different from the routing number on (IRA). You can have your refund
your checks. directly deposited to a traditional IRA,
Simple. Safe. Secure.
Roth IRA, or SEP-IRA, but not a
Fast Refunds! Choose direct deposit–a If the direct deposit to your SIMPLE IRA. You must establish the
fast, simple, safe, secure way to have your account(s) is different from the amount IRA at a bank or other financial
refund deposited automatically to your
you expected, you will receive an institution before you request direct
checking or savings account, including an
explanation in the mail about 2 weeks deposit. Make sure your direct deposit
individual retirement arrangement (IRA).
after your refund is deposited. will be accepted. You also must notify
See the information on IRAs on this page.
the trustee of your account of the year
Line 72b. The routing number must
to which the deposit is to be applied
Why Use Direct Deposit? be nine digits. The first two digits must
unless the trustee will not accept a
• You get your refund faster by direct be 01 through 12 or 21 through 32.
deposit for 2007. If you do not, the
deposit than you do by check. Otherwise, the direct deposit will be
trustee can assume the deposit is for
• Payment is more secure— there is rejected and a check sent instead. On
the year during which you are filing the
no check that can get lost or stolen. the sample check below, the routing
return. For example, if you file your
It is more convenient. You do not number is 250250025. Rufus and Mary
• 2007 return during 2008 and do not
have to make a trip to the bank to Maple would use that routing number
unless their financial institution notify the trustee in advance, the
deposit your check.
instructed them to use a different trustee can assume the deposit to your
• It saves tax dollars. It costs the IRA is for 2008. If you designate your
routing number for direct deposits.
government less to refund by direct deposit to be for 2007, you must verify
deposit.
Ask your financial institution for the that the deposit actually was made to
If you want us to directly deposit the correct routing number to enter on line the account by the due date of the
amount shown on line 72a to your 72b if: return (without regard to extensions). If
checking or savings account, including
• Your deposit is to a savings account the deposit is not made to your account
an IRA, at a U.S. bank or other financial
that does not allow you to write checks, by the due date of the return (without
institution (such as a mutual fund,
or regard to extensions), the deposit is not
brokerage firm, or credit union) in the
• Your checks state they are payable an IRA contribution for 2007. You must
United States:
through a financial institution different file an amended 2007 return and
• Check the box on line 72a and attach from the one at which you have your reduce any IRA deduction and any
Form 8888 if you want to split the direct
checking account. retirement savings contributions credit
deposit of your refund among two or
you claimed.
three accounts, or Line 72c. Check the appropriate
• Complete lines 72b through 72d if box for the type of account. Do not You may be able to contribute
you want your refund deposited to only check more than one box. If the deposit
! up to $4,000 ($5,000 if age 50
one account. is to an IRA, ask your financial
CAUTION or older at the end of 2007) to a
institution whether you should check traditional IRA or Roth IRA for 2007.
Otherwise, we will send you a check. the “Checking” or “Savings” box. You The limit for 2008 is $5,000 ($6,000 if
age 50 or older at the end of 2008). A
Sample Check—Lines 72b Through 72d higher limit may apply for 2007 and
2008 if you were a participant in a
RUFUS MAPLE 1234 401(k) plan and your employer was in
H17074
MARY MAPLE bankruptcy in an earlier year. You may
123 Main Street 15-0000/0000
owe a penalty if your contributions
Anyplace, LA 70000
exceed these limits.
For more information on IRAs, SA M PLE PAY TO THE ORDER OF $
TIP see Pub. 590.
DOLLARS
Routing Account
ANYPLACE BANK Number Number
Do not include
Anyplace, LA 70000 Line 73 — Applied to 2008 estimated
(line 72b) (line 72d) the check number
tax. Enter on line 73 the amount, if
For
H17074 any, of the overpayment on line 71 you
want applied to your 2008 estimated |:250250025|:202020"’86" . 1234
tax. This election cannot be changed
Note: The routing and account numbers may appear in different places on your check. later.
-24- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 25 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
To pay by electronic federal tax the amount on line 57 only if line 59 is
Amount You Owe payment system (EFTPS). You also more than zero or you would owe the
can pay using EFTPS, a free tax penalty even if you did not include
Line 74 — Amount you owe. payment system that allows you to those taxes. But if you entered an
make payments online or by phone. For amount on Schedule H (Form 1040),
To save interest and penalties,
more information or details on enrolling, line 7, include the total of that amount
TIP pay your taxes in full by the due
visit www.eftps.gov or, if you are in the plus the amount on Form 1040NR, line
date. You do not have to pay if
United States, call Customer Service at 57.
line 74 is under $1.
1-800-316-6541. TTY/TDD help is
Exception. You will not owe theavailable by calling 1-800-733-4829.Include any estimated tax penalty
from line 75 in the amount you enter on penalty if your 2006 tax return was for a
You may need to (a) increase
line 74. tax year of 12 full months and either of
TIP the amount of income tax
the following applies.
You can pay by check, money order, withheld from your pay by filing
a new Form W-4, (b) increase the tax 1. You had no tax shown on your
credit card, or the electronic federal tax
withholding from other income by filing 2006 return and you were a U.S. citizen
payment system. Do not include any
Form W-4P or W-4V, or (c) make or resident for all of 2006, or
estimated tax payment for 2008 in your
estimated tax payments for 2008. See 2. The total of lines 59, 60, 61, and
check, money order, or amount you
charge. Instead, make the estimated Income Tax Withholding and Estimated 65 through 68b on your 2007 return is
tax payment separately. Tax Payments for Individuals for 2008 at least as much as the tax shown on
on page 30. your 2006 return. Your estimated tax
To pay by check or money order. What if you cannot pay? If you payments for 2007 must have been
Make your check or money order cannot pay the full amount shown on made on time and for the required
payable to the “United States Treasury” line 74 when you file, you can ask to amount.
for the full amount due. Do not send make monthly installment payments for
cash. Do not attach the payment to the full or a partial amount. You may
your return. Write “2007 Form 1040NR” If your 2006 adjusted gross
have up to 60 months to pay. However,
and your name, address, daytime ! income was over $150,000
even if your request to pay in
phone number, and SSN or ITIN on CAUTION (over $75,000 if you checked
installments is granted, you will be
your payment. filing status box 3, 4, or 5 for 2007),
charged interest and may be charged a
item (2) applies only if the total of lines
To help process your payment, enter late payment penalty on the tax not 59, 60, 61, and 65 through 68b on your
the amount on the right side of the paid by the date due. You also must 2007 tax return is at least 110% of the
check like this: $ XXX.XX. Do not use pay a fee. To limit the interest and tax shown on your 2006 return. This
dashes or lines (for example, do not penalty charges, pay as much of the rule does not apply to farmers and
XX tax as possible when you file. But
enter “XXX–” or “XXX ₁₀₀”). fishermen.
before requesting an installment
To pay by credit card. You can use agreement, you should consider other
Figuring the penalty. If the
your American Express® Card, less costly alternatives, such as a bank
Exception above does not apply and
Discover® Card, MasterCard® card, or loan or credit card payment.
you choose to figure the penalty
Visa® card. To pay by credit card, call
To ask for an installment agreement, yourself, see Form 2210 (or Form
toll-free or visit the website of either
you can apply online or use Form 9465. 2210-F for farmers and fishermen) to
service provider listed below and follow
To apply online, go to www.irs.gov, use find out if you owe the penalty. If you
the instructions. You will be asked to
the pull-down menu under “I need to...” do, you can use the form to figure the
provide your social security number
and select “Set Up a Payment Plan.” If amount.
(SSN). If you do not have and are not
you use Form 9465, you should receive
eligible to get an SSN, use your
a response to your request for Enter the penalty on line 75. Add the
IRS-issued individual taxpayer
installments within 30 days. But if you penalty to any tax due and enter the
identification number (ITIN) instead.
file your return after March 31, it may total on line 74. If you are due a refund,
A convenience fee will be charged take us longer to reply. subtract the penalty from the
by the service provider based on the Line 75 — Estimated tax penalty. overpayment you show on line 71. Do
amount you are paying. Fees may vary You may owe this penalty if: not file Form 2210 with your return
between the providers. You will be told • Line 74 is at least $1,000 and it is unless Form 2210 indicates that you
what the fee is during the transaction more than 10% of the tax shown on must do so. Instead, keep it for your
and you will have the option to either your return, or records.
continue or cancel the transaction. You • You did not pay enough estimated
also can find out what the fee will be by tax by any of the due dates. This is true Because Form 2210 is
calling the provider’s toll-free even if you are due a refund. TIP complicated, you can leave line
automated customer service number or For most people, the “tax shown on 75 blank and the IRS will figure
visiting the provider’s website shown your return” is the amount on line 58 the penalty and send you a bill. We will
below. minus the total of any amounts shown not charge you interest on the penalty if
on lines 62 and 69 and Forms 8828, you pay by the date specified on the
4137, 4136, 5329 (Parts III through VIII bill. If your income varied during the
Link2Gov Corporation year, the annualized income installment
only), 8885, and 8919. Also, subtract
1-888-PAY-1040 SM (1-888-729-1040) method may reduce the amount of your
from line 58 any tax on an excess
1-888-658-5465 (Customer Service) parachute payment, any excise tax on penalty. But you must file Form 2210
www.PAY1040.com insider stock compensation of an because the IRS cannot figure your
expatriated corporation, and any penalty under this method. See the
Official Payments Corporation uncollected social security and Instructions for Form 2210 for other
1-800-2PAY-TAX SM (1-800-272-9829) Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or situations in which you may be able to
1-877-754-4413 (Customer Service) group-term life insurance. When lower your penalty by filing Form 2210.
www.officialpayments.com figuring the amount on line 58, include
Instructions for Form 1040NR -25-Page 26 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
tolls to the amount you claim under
Third Party Designee State and Local Income either method. But do not deduct any
If you want to allow a friend, family Taxes amounts that were repaid to you.
member, or any other person you
Gifts from which you benefit. If you
choose to discuss your 2007 tax return Lines 1 Through 3
made a gift and received a benefit in
with the IRS, check the “Yes” box in the You can deduct state and local income
return, such as food, entertainment, or
“Third Party Designee” area of your taxes you paid or that were withheld
merchandise, you generally can deduct
return. Also, enter the designee’s from your salary during 2007 on income
only the amount that is more than the
name, U.S. phone number, and any connected with a U.S. trade or
value of the benefit. But this rule does
five numbers the designee chooses as business. If, during 2007, you received
not apply to certain membership
his or her personal identification any refunds of, or credits for, income
benefits provided in return for an
number (PIN). But if you want to allow tax paid in earlier years, do not subtract
annual payment of $75 or less. For
the paid preparer who signed your them from the amount you deduct here.
details, see Pub. 526.
return to discuss it with the IRS, just Instead, see the instructions for
enter “Preparer” in the space for the Form 1040NR, line 11, on page 11. Example. You paid $70 to a
designee’s name. You do not have to charitable organization to attend a
provide the other information Gifts to U.S. Charities fund-raising dinner and the value of the
requested. dinner was $40. You can deduct only
Lines 4 Through 7 $30.
If you check the “Yes” box, you are
You can deduct contributions or gifts
authorizing the IRS to call the designee Gifts of $250 or more. You can
you gave to U.S. organizations that are
to answer any questions that may arise deduct a gift of $250 or more only if you
religious, charitable, educational,
during the processing of your return. have a statement from the charitable
scientific, or literary in purpose. You
You also are authorizing the designee organization showing the information in
also can deduct what you gave to
to: (1) and (2) below.
organizations that work to prevent
• Give the IRS any information that is cruelty to children or animals. 1. The amount of any money
missing from your return, contributed and a description (but not
• Call the IRS for information about the To verify an organization’s charitable value) of any property donated.
processing of your return or the status status, you can: 2. Whether the organization did or
of your refund or payment(s), • Check with the organization to which did not give you any goods or services
you made the donation. The
• Receive copies of notices or in return for your contribution. If you did
organization should be able to provide
transcripts related to your return, upon receive any goods or services, a
you with verification of its charitable
request, and description and estimate of the value
status.
• Respond to certain IRS notices about must be included. If you received only
• See Pub. 78 for a list of most
math errors, offsets, and return intangible religious benefits (such as
qualified organizations. You can access
preparation. admission to a religious ceremony), the
Pub. 78 at www.irs.gov under Charities
organization must state this, but it does
and Non-Profits.
You are not authorizing the designee not have to describe or value the
to receive any refund check, bind you • If in the United States, call our Tax benefit.
Exempt/Government Entities Customer
to anything (including any additional tax
Account Services at 1-877-829-5500.
liability), or otherwise represent you In figuring whether a gift is $250 or
before the IRS. If you want to expand Examples of U.S. qualified charitable more, do not combine separate
the designee’s authorization, see Pub. organizations include the following. donations. For example, if you gave
947. • Churches, mosques, synagogues, your church $25 each week for a total
temples, etc. of $1,300, treat each $25 payment as a
The authorization will end • Boy Scouts, Boys and Girls Clubs of separate gift. If you made donations
automatically no later than the due date America, CARE, Girl Scouts, Goodwill
through payroll deductions, treat each
(without regard to extensions) for filing Industries, Red Cross, Salvation Army,
deduction from each paycheck as a
your 2008 tax return (see When To File United Way, etc.
separate gift. See Pub. 526 if you made
on page 4). If you wish to revoke the • Fraternal orders, if the gifts will be a separate gift of $250 or more through
authorization before it ends, see Pub. used for the purposes listed above.
payroll deduction.
947. • Veterans’ and certain cultural groups.
• Nonprofit schools, hospitals, and You must get the statement by
organizations whose purpose is to find TIP the date you file your return or
a cure for, or help people who have, the due date (including
Signature arthritis, asthma, birth defects, cancer, extensions) for filing your return,
See Reminders beginning on page 30 cerebral palsy, cystic fibrosis, diabetes, whichever is earlier. Do not attach the
after you complete pages 3, 4, and 5 of heart disease, hemophilia, mental statement to your return. Instead, keep
the form. illness or retardation, multiple sclerosis, it for your records.
muscular dystrophy, tuberculosis, etc.
• Federal, state, and local Limit on the amount you can deduct.
governments if the gifts are solely for See Pub. 526 to figure the amount of
Instructions for public purposes. your deduction if any of the following
applies.
Schedule A, Itemized Contributions you can deduct.
Contributions can be in cash, property, 1. Your cash contributions or
Deductions or out-of-pocket expenses you paid to contributions of ordinary income
do volunteer work for the kinds of property are more than 30% of the
Do not include on Schedule A organizations described earlier. If you amount on Form 1040NR, line 36.
! items deducted elsewhere such drove to and from the volunteer work, 2. Your gifts of capital gain property
are more than 20% of the amount onas on Form 1040NR or you can take the actual cost of gas andCAUTION
Schedule C, C-EZ, E, or F (Form 1040). oil or 14 cents a mile. Add parking and Form 1040NR, line 36.
-26- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 27 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
3. You gave gifts of property that details on determining the value of Casualty and Theft Losses
increased in value or gave gifts of the donated property, see Pub. 561.
use of property. If the amount of your deduction is Line 8
more than $500, you must complete Complete and attach Form 4684 to
Contributions you cannot deduct.
and attach Form 8283. For this figure the amount of your loss to enter
• Travel expenses (including meals purpose, the “amount of your
on line 8.
and lodging) while away from home,
deduction” means your deduction
unless there was no significant element You may be able to deduct part or all
before applying any income limits that
of personal pleasure, recreation, or of each loss caused by theft,
could result in a carryover of
vacation in the travel. vandalism, fire, storm, or similar
contributions. If you deduct more than
• Political contributions. $500 for a contribution of a motor causes, and car, boat, and other
• Dues, fees, or bills paid to country vehicle, boat, or airplane, you also must accidents. You also may be able to
clubs, lodges, fraternal orders, or deduct money you had in a financial
attach a statement from the charitable
similar groups. institution but lost because of the
organization to your return. The
• Cost of raffle, bingo, or lottery tickets. organization may use Form 1098-C to insolvency or bankruptcy of the
• Cost of tuition. But you may be able provide the required information. If your institution.
to deduct this expense on line 9. See
total deduction is over $5,000, you also You can deduct nonbusiness
page 28.
may have to get appraisals of the casualty or theft losses only to the
• Value of your time or services. values of the donated property. This
extent that:
• Value of blood given to a blood bank. amount is $500 for certain contributions
The transfer of a future interest in 1. The amount of each separate
• of clothing and household items (see
tangible personal property (generally, casualty or theft loss is more than
below). See Form 8283 and its
until the entire interest has been $100, and
instructions for details.
transferred). 2. The total amount of all losses
Gifts to individuals and groups that Contributions of clothing and during the year (reduced by the $100
•
are run for personal profit. household items. A deduction for limit discussed in (1) above) is more
Gifts to foreign organizations. But these contributions will be allowed only than 10% of the amount shown on
•
you may be able to deduct gifts to if the items are in good used condition Form 1040NR, line 36.
certain U.S. organizations that transfer or better. However, this rule does not
funds to foreign charities and certain apply to a contribution of any single Special rules apply if you had both
Canadian, Israeli, and Mexican item for which a deduction of more than gains and losses from nonbusiness
charities. See Pub. 526 for details. $500 is claimed and for which you casualties or thefts. See Form 4684
Gifts to organizations engaged in include a qualified appraisal and Form and its instructions for details.
•
certain political activities that are of 8283 with your tax return.
Use Schedule A, line 11, to deduct
direct financial interest to your trade or Recordkeeping. If you gave property, the costs of proving that you had a
business. See section 170(f)(9). you should keep a receipt or written property loss. Examples of these costs
• Gifts to groups whose purpose is to statement from the organization you are appraisal fees and photographs
lobby for changes in the laws. gave the property to, or a reliable used to establish the amount of your
• Gifts to civic leagues, social and written record, that shows the loss.
sports clubs, labor unions, and organization’s name and address, the
chambers of commerce. date and location of the gift, and a For information on federal disaster
• Value of benefits received in description of the property. For each area losses, see Pub. 547.
connection with a contribution to a gift of property, you also should keep
charitable organization. See Pub. 526 reliable written records that include: Job Expenses and Certain
for exceptions. • How you figured the property’s value Miscellaneous Deductions
at the time you gave it. If the value was
Line 4 determined by an appraisal, keep a Note. Miscellaneous deductions are
Enter the total gifts you made in cash or signed copy of the appraisal. allowed only if and to the extent they
are directly related to your effectively • The cost or other basis of theby check (including out-of-pocket
expenses). property if you must reduce it by any connected income. You can deduct
ordinary income or capital gain that only the part of these expenses that
Recordkeeping. For any contribution exceeds 2% of the amount on Form
would have resulted if the property had
made in cash, regardless of the 1040NR, line 36.
been sold at its fair market value.
amount, you must maintain as a record
of the contribution a bank record (such • How you figured your deduction if Pub. 529 discusses the types of
as a canceled check) or a written you chose to reduce your deduction for expenses you can and cannot deduct.
gifts of capital gain property.
record from the charity. The written
• Any conditions attached to the gift. Examples of Expenses You
record must include the name of the
charity, date, and amount of the If your total deduction for gifts of Cannot Deduct
contribution. Do not attach the record to ! property is over $500, you gave • Political contributions.
your tax return. Instead, keep it with CAUTION less than your entire interest in • Legal expenses for personal matters
your other tax records. the property, or you made a “qualified that do not produce taxable income.
conservation contribution,” your records • Lost or misplaced cash or property.
Line 5 should contain additional information. • Expenses for meals during regular or
Enter your contributions of property. If See Pub. 526 for details. extra work hours.
you gave used items, such as clothing • The cost of entertaining friends.
or furniture, deduct their fair market Line 6 • Commuting expenses. See Pub. 529
value at the time you gave them. Fair Enter any carryover of contributions for the definition of commuting.
market value is what a willing buyer that you could not deduct in an earlier • Travel expenses for employment
would pay a willing seller when neither year because they exceeded your away from home if that period of
has to buy or sell and both are aware of adjusted gross income limit. See employment exceeds 1 year.
the conditions of the sale. For more Pub. 526 for details. • Travel as a form of education.
Instructions for Form 1040NR -27-Page 28 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• Expenses of attending a seminar, 2. Your employer paid you for any • Fees to employment agencies and
convention, or similar meeting unless it of your job expenses that you otherwise other costs to look for a new job in your
is related to your employment. would report on line 9. present occupation, even if you do not
• Club dues. See Pub. 529 for get a new job.
exceptions. If you used your own vehicle • Certain business use of part of your
• Expenses of adopting a child. But TIP and item (2) above does not home. For details, including limits that
you may be able to take a credit for apply, you may be able to file apply, see Pub. 587.
adoption expenses. See Form 8839 for Form 2106-EZ instead. • Certain educational expenses. For
details. details, see Pub. 970.
Fines and penalties. If you do not have to file Form 2106
• Line 10
or 2106-EZ, list the type and amount of
• Expenses of producing tax-exempt
each expense on the dotted lines next Enter the fees you paid for preparation
income.
to line 9. If you need more space, of your tax return. If you paid your tax
attach a statement showing the type by credit card, do not include the
Line 9
and amount of each expense. Enter convenience fee you were charged.
Enter the total ordinary and necessary one total on line 9.
job expenses you paid for which you Line 11
were not reimbursed. (Amounts your Do not include on line 9 any Enter the total amount you paid to
employer included in box 1 of your ! educator expenses you produce or collect taxable income and
Form W-2 are not considered CAUTION deducted on Form 1040NR, line manage or protect property held for
reimbursements.) 24. earning income. But do not include any
personal expenses. List the type and
An ordinary expense is one that is Examples of other expenses to
amount of each expense on the dotted
common and accepted in your field of include on line 9 are:
lines next to line 11. If you need more
trade, business, or profession. A • Safety equipment, small tools, and
space, attach a statement showing the
necessary expense is one that is supplies needed for your job.
type and amount of each expense.
helpful and appropriate for your • Uniforms required by your employer
Enter one total on line 11.
business. An expense does not have to that are not suitable for ordinary wear.
be required to be considered • Protective clothing required in your Examples of expenses to include on
necessary. work, such as hard hats, safety shoes, line 11 are:
and glasses. • Certain legal and accounting fees.
 But you must fill in and attach • Physical examinations required by • Clerical help and office rent.
Form 2106 if either (1) or (2) below your employer. Custodial (for example, trust account)
•
applies. • Dues to professional organizations fees.
1. You claim any travel, and chambers of commerce. • Your share of the investment
transportation, meal, or entertainment • Subscriptions to professional expenses of a regulated investment
expenses for your job. journals. company.
• Certain losses on nonfederally
insured deposits in an insolvent or
Itemized Deductions
bankrupt financial institution. For
Worksheet — Line 17 Keep for Your Records
details, including limits that apply, see
Pub. 529.
1. Add the amounts on Schedule A, lines 3, 7, 8, 15, and 16 1. • Casualty and theft losses of property
2. Enter the total of the amount on Schedule A, line 8, plus used in performing services as an
any casualty or theft losses included on line 16 2. employee from Form 4684, lines 32 and
Caution: Be sure your casualty or theft losses are clearly 38b, or Form 4797, line 18a.
identified on the dotted lines next to line 16. • Deduction for repayment of amounts
under a claim of right if $3,000 or less.
3. Is the amount on line 2 less than the amount on line 1?
❏ No. Stop. Your deduction is not limited. Enter the
Other Miscellaneous
amount from line 1 above on Schedule A, line 17.
❏ Yes. Subtract line 2 from line 1 3. Deductions
4. Multiply line 3 above by 80% (.80) 4.
5. Enter the amount from Form Line 16
1040NR, line 36 5. List the type and amount of each
6. Enter: $156,400 ($78,200 if you expense on the dotted lines next to line
checked filing status box 3, 4, or 5) 6. 16. Enter one total on line 16.
7. Is the amount on line 6 less than the Examples of these expenses are:
amount on line 5? • Casualty and theft losses of
income-producing property from Form
❏ No. Stop. Your deduction is not
4684, lines 32 and 38b, or Form 4797,
limited. Enter the amount from
line 18a.
line 1 above on Schedule A, line
17. • Loss from other activities from
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065-B), box 2.
❏ Yes. Subtract line 6 from line 5 7.
• Deduction for repayment of amounts
8. Multiply line 7 above by 3% (.03). . 8.
under a claim of right if over $3,000.
9. Enter the smaller of line 4 or line 8 9.
See Pub. 525 for details.
10. Divide line 9 by 3.0 10. Certain unrecovered investment in a
•
11. Subtract line 10 from line 9 11. pension.
12. Total itemized deductions. Subtract line 11 from line 1. • Impairment-related work expenses of
Enter the result here and on Schedule A, line 17 12. a disabled person.
For more details, see Pub. 529.
-28- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 29 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Total Itemized Deductions copyrights, and other intangible security, you should receive a Form
property. RRB-1042S.
Line 17 3. Original issue discount (OID). If
Enter 85% of the total amount from
you sold or exchanged the obligation,
Use the worksheet on page 28 to figure box 5 of all of your Forms SSA-1042S
include in income the OID that accrued
the amount to enter on line 17 if the and Forms RRB-1042S in the
while you held the obligation minus the
amount on Form 1040NR, line 36, is appropriate column of line 83 of
amount previously included in income.
over $156,400 ($78,200 if you checked Form 1040NR. Enter any federal tax
If you received a payment on an OID
filing status box 3, 4, or 5). withheld in column (a) of line 83. Attach
obligation, see Pub. 519.
a copy of each Form SSA-1042S and
4. Capital gains in excess of capital
RRB-1042S to Form 1040NR.
losses from U.S. sources during 2007.
Tax on Income Not Include these gains only if you were in Withholding of tax at the source.
the United States at least 183 days Tax must be withheld at the source on
Effectively Connected during 2007. They are not subject to certain income from U.S. sources paid
With a U.S. Trade or U.S. tax if you were in the United to nonresident aliens. The withholding
States less than 183 days during the is generally at the 30% rate. There are
Business (Page 4) tax year. In determining your net gain, exceptions to the general rule, and tax
The following items are generally taxed do not use the capital loss carryover. treaties with various countries may
at 30% if they are not effectively Losses from sales or exchanges of provide a lower rate or exempt certain
connected with your U.S. trade or capital assets in excess of similar gains income from withholding. The tax must
business. The rate may be lower if your are not allowed. be withheld by the person who pays
country of residence and the United If you had a gain or loss on fixed or determinable annual or periodic
States have a treaty setting lower rates. disposing of a U.S. real property income to nonresident aliens. The
Table 1 in Pub. 901 summarizes which interest, see Dispositions of U.S. Real income subject to this withholding
countries have such treaties and what Property Interests on page 6. should be reported on page 4 of Form
the rates are. 5. Prizes, awards, and certain 1040NR. For details, see Pub. 519,
Pub. 515, and section 1441 and its
gambling winnings. Proceeds from
The 30% tax applies only to amounts regulations.
lotteries, raffles, etc., are gambling
included in gross income. For example,
winnings (see section 871(j) for
the tax applies only to the part of a
exceptions). You must report the full
periodic annuity or pension payment
that is subject to tax; it does not apply amount of your winnings. You cannot Other Information
offset losses against winnings and
to the part that is a return of your cost. (Page 5)
report the difference.
The following list gives only a
Note. Residents of Canada may claim Item D
general idea of the type of income to
gambling losses, but only to the extent
include on page 4. (For more Enter your current nonimmigrant status.
of gambling winnings. They should
information, see Pub. 519.) Include the For example, enter your current
report both their total gambling
following only to the extent the amount nonimmigrant status shown on your
winnings and their total gambling losses
received is not effectively connected current U.S. Citizenship and
on the dotted line on line 85 (or attach a
with the conduct of a trade or business Immigration Services (USCIS) Form
separate schedule if more space is
in the United States. I-94, Arrival-Departure Record. If your
needed). If they have net gambling
1. Income that is fixed or periodic, winnings (after offsetting their total status has changed while in the United
such as interest (other than original gambling losses against their total States, enter the date of change. If your
issue discount), dividends, rents, gambling winnings), they should include status has not changed, enter “N/A.”
salaries, wages, premiums, annuities, this net amount on line 85, column (d).
other compensation, or alimony Item E
received. Other items of income, such Social security benefits (and tier 1 You are generally required to enter
as royalties, also may be subject to the railroad retirement benefits treated your date of entry into the United States
30% tax. as social security). 85% of the U.S. that pertains to your current
social security and equivalent railroad nonimmigrant status (for example, the
Exceptions. The following items of
retirement benefits you received are date of arrival shown on your most
interest and dividend income that you
taxable. This amount is treated as U.S. recent USCIS Form I-94).
received as a nonresident alien
generally are exempt from the 30% tax. source income not effectively Exception. If you are claiming a tax
• Interest from a U.S. bank, savings connected with a U.S. trade or treaty benefit that is determined by
and loan association, or similar business. It is subject to the 30% tax reference to more than one date of
institution, and from certain deposits rate, unless exempt or taxed at a arrival, enter the earlier date of arrival.
with U.S. insurance companies. reduced rate under a U.S. tax treaty. For example, you are currently claiming
• Portfolio interest on obligations Social security benefits include any treaty benefits (as a teacher) under
issued after July 18, 1984. monthly benefit under title II of the article 20 of the tax treaty between the
• Interest-related dividends received Social Security Act or the part of a tier 1 United States and the Republic of
from a mutual fund. railroad retirement benefit treated as a Korea (South Korea). You previously
• Short-term capital gain dividends social security benefit. They do not claimed treaty benefits (as a student)
from a mutual fund only if you were include any Supplemental Security under article 21 of that treaty. Under
present in the United States for less Income (SSI) payments. article 21, paragraph 4, of that treaty,
than 183 days during the tax year. You should receive a Form the combination of consecutive
• U.S. source dividends paid by SSA-1042S showing the total social exemptions under articles 20 and 21
certain foreign corporations. security benefits paid to you in 2007 may not extend beyond 5 tax years
For more information, see Pub. 519. and the amount of any benefits you from the date you entered the United
2. Gains, other than capital gains, repaid in 2007. If you received railroad States as a student. If article 21,
from the sale or exchange of patents, retirement benefits treated as social paragraph 4, of that treaty applies,
Instructions for Form 1040NR -29-Page 30 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
enter in item E the date you entered the reports the required information on its “By (your signature), parent for minor
United States as a student. return. child.”
5. The payments or items of income Paid preparer must sign your return.
Item M that otherwise are required to be Generally, anyone you pay to prepare
If you are a resident of a treaty country disclosed total no more than $10,000. your return must sign it in the space
(that is, you qualify as a resident of that provided. The preparer must give you a
country within the meaning of the tax Item P copy of the return for your records.
treaty between the United States and Someone who prepares your return but
If you expatriated, see Special Rules
that country), you must know the terms does not charge you should not sign
for Former U.S. Citizens and Former
of the tax treaty between the United your return.
U.S. Long-Term Residents beginning
States and the treaty country to
on page 6 for details on how to answer Income Tax Withholding and
properly complete item M. You may
the question in item P and for Estimated Tax Payments for
download the complete text of most
information that must be included in the Individuals for 2008
U.S. tax treaties at www.irs.gov.
annual information statement, if
Technical explanations for many of If the amount you owe or the amount
required. If you are a former U.S.
those treaties are also available at that you overpaid is large, you may be able
long-term resident filing a dual-status
site. Also, see Pub. 901 for a quick to file a new Form W-4 with your
return for your last year of U.S.
reference guide to the provisions of employer to change the amount of
residency, you must also attach Form
U.S. tax treaties. income tax withheld from your 2008
8854. See Dual-Status Taxpayers that
If you are claiming treaty benefits on begins on page 4. pay. For details on how to complete
Form W-4, see the Instructions for
Form 1040NR, you must provide all of
the information requested in item M. Item R Form 8233. If you have pension or
annuity income, use Form W-4P. If you
If you received total compensation of
If you are claiming tax treaty receive certain government payments
$250,000 or more for 2007 and you are
(such as unemployment compensationbenefits and you failed to submit using an alternative basis to determine!
or social security benefits), you canadequate documentation to aCAUTION the source, check the box in item R.
withholding agent, you must attach all have tax withheld from those payments
Total compensation includes all
information that otherwise would have by giving the payer Form W-4V.
compensation from sources within and
been required on the withholding without the United States. In general, you do not have to make
document (for example, all information estimated tax payments if you expect
required on Form W-8BEN or If you are required to check the box that your 2008 Form 1040NR will show
Form 8233). in item R, you must attach a statement a tax refund or a tax balance due the
to your return. For details about the IRS of less than $1,000. If your total
Treaty-based return position statement and the alternative basis, see
estimated tax (including any household
disclosure. If you take the position Services performed partly inside and
employment taxes or alternative
that a treaty of the United States partly outside the United States on
minimum tax) for 2008 is $1,000 or
overrides or modifies any provision of page 10.
more, see Form 1040-ES(NR). It has a
the Internal Revenue Code and that
worksheet you can use to see if you
position reduces (or potentially
have to make estimated tax payments.
reduces) your tax, you must report Reminders However, if you expect to be a resident
certain information on Form 8833 and
of Puerto Rico during all of 2008 and
attach it to Form 1040NR.
Sign and Date Your Return you must pay estimated tax, use Form
You can be charged a $1,000 1040-ES.
Form 1040NR is not considered a valid
penalty for each failure to report the
return unless you sign it. You can have Secure Your Tax Records from
required information. For more details,
an agent in the United States prepare Identity Theft
see Form 8833 and Regulations section
and sign your return if you could not do
301.6114-1. Identity theft occurs when someone
so for one of the following reasons:
uses your personal information such as
Exceptions. You do not have to file • You were ill.
your name, social security number
Form 8833 for any of the following • You were not in the United States at
(SSN), or other identifying information,
situations. any time during the 60 days before the
without your permission, to commit
1. You claim a treaty reduces the return was due. fraud or other crimes. An identity thief
withholding tax on interest, dividends, • For other reasons that you explained may use your SSN to get a job or may
rents, royalties, or other fixed or in writing to the Department of the file a tax return using your SSN to
determinable annual or periodic income Treasury, Internal Revenue Service receive a refund.
ordinarily subject to the 30% rate. Center, Austin, TX 73301-0215 U.S.A.,
and that the IRS approved. To reduce your risk:
2. You claim a treaty reduces or
• Protect your SSN,
modifies the taxation of income from A return prepared by an agent must
• Ensure your employer is protecting
dependent personal services, pensions, be accompanied by a power of
your SSN, and
annuities, social security and other attorney. Form 2848 may be used for
• Be careful when choosing a tax
public pensions, or income of artists, this purpose.
preparer.
athletes, students, trainees, or
teachers. This includes taxable Be sure to date your return and Call the IRS at 1-800-829-1040 if
scholarship and fellowship grants. show your occupation(s) in the United you think your identity has been used
3. You claim an International Social States in the space provided. If you inappropriately for tax purposes.
have someone prepare your return, you
Security Agreement or a Diplomatic or Victims of identity theft who are
are still responsible for the correctness
Consular Agreement reduces or experiencing economic harm or a
of the return.
modifies the taxation of income. systemic problem, or are seeking help
4. You are a partner in a partnership Child’s return. If your child cannot in resolving tax problems that have not
or a beneficiary of an estate or trust sign the return, you can sign the child’s been resolved through normal
and the partnership, estate, or trust name in the space provided. Then, add channels, may be eligible for Taxpayer
-30- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 31 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Advocate Service (TAS) assistance. date the return was due or filed or 2 If you include interest or penalties
You can reach TAS by calling the TAS years from the date the tax was paid, (other than the estimated tax penalty)
toll-free case intake line at whichever is later. You should keep with your payment, identify and enter
1-877-777-4778 or TTY/TDD some records longer. For example, the amount in the bottom margin of
1-800-829-4059. keep property records (including those Form 1040NR, page 2. Do not include
Protect yourself from suspicious on your home) as long as they are interest or penalties (other than the
emails or phishing schemes. needed to figure the basis of the estimated tax penalty) in the amount
Phishing is the creation and use of original or replacement property. For you owe on line 74.
email and websites designed to mimic more details, see Pub. 552. Interest. We will charge you interest
legitimate business emails and Amended Return on taxes not paid by their due date,
websites. The most common form is the even if an extension of time to file is
act of sending an email to a user falsely File Form 1040X to change a return granted. We also will charge you
claiming to be an established legitimate you already filed. Also, use interest on penalties imposed for failure
enterprise in an attempt to scam the Form 1040X if you filed Form 1040NR to file, negligence, fraud, substantial
user into surrendering private and you should have filed a Form 1040, valuation misstatements, substantial
information that will be used for identity 1040A, or 1040EZ, or vice versa. understatements of tax, and reportable
theft. Generally, Form 1040X must be filed transaction understatements. Interest is
within 3 years after the date the original
The IRS does not initiate contacts charged on the penalty from the due
return was filed or within 2 years after
with taxpayers via emails. Also, the IRS date of the return (including
the date the tax was paid, whichever is
does not request detailed personal extensions).
later. But you may have more time to
information through email or ask Penalty for late filing. If you do not
file Form 1040X if you are physically or
taxpayers for the PIN numbers, file your return by the due date
mentally unable to manage your
passwords, or similar secret access (including extensions), the penalty is
financial affairs. See Pub. 556 for
information for their credit card, bank, usually 5% of the amount due for each
details.
or other financial accounts. month or part of a month your return is
If you receive an unsolicited email Requesting a Copy of Your Tax late, unless you have a reasonable
claiming to be from the IRS, forward the Return explanation. If you do, attach it to your
message to phishing@irs.gov. You may If you need a copy of your tax return, return. The penalty can be as much as
also report misuse of the IRS name, use Form 4506. There is a $39 fee 25% of the tax due. The penalty is 15%
logo, forms, or other IRS property to the (subject to change) for each return per month, up to a maximum of 75%, if
Treasury Inspector General for Tax requested. If your main home, principal the failure to file is fraudulent. If your
Administration toll-free at place of business, or tax records are return is more than 60 days late, the
1-800-366-4484. You can forward located in a Presidentially declared minimum penalty will be $100 or the
suspicious emails to the Federal Trade disaster area, this fee will be waived. If amount of any tax you owe, whichever
Commission at spam@uce.gov or you want a free transcript of your tax is smaller.
contact them at www.ftc.gov/idtheft or return or account, use Form 4506-T or Penalty for late payment of tax. If
1-877-IDTHEFT (1-877-438-4338). call us at 1-800-829-1040. you pay your taxes late, the penalty is
Visit the IRS website at www.irs.gov usually ¹/2 of 1% of the unpaid amount
to learn more about identity theft and Past Due Returns for each month or part of a month the
how to reduce your risk. The integrity of our tax system and tax is not paid. The penalty can be as
well-being of our country depend, to a much as 25% of the unpaid amount. It
Gift To Reduce Debt Held By large degree, on the timely filing and applies to any unpaid tax on the return.
the Public payment of taxes by each individual, This penalty is in addition to interest
If you wish to make such a gift, make a family, and business in this country. charges on late payments.
check payable to “Bureau of the Public Those choosing not to file and pay their Penalty for frivolous return. In
Debt.” You can send it to: Bureau of the fair share increase the burden on the addition to any other penalties, the law
Public Debt, Department G, P.O. Box rest of us to support our schools, imposes a penalty of $5,000 for filing a
2188, Parkersburg, WV 26106-2188. Or maintain and repair roadways, and the frivolous return. A frivolous return is one
you can enclose the check with your many other ways our tax dollars help to that does not contain information
income tax return when you file. Do not make life easier for all citizens. needed to figure the correct tax or
add your gift to any tax you may owe. Some people don’t know they should shows a substantially incorrect tax
See page 25 for details on how to pay file a tax return; some don’t file because you take a frivolous position or
any tax you owe. because they expect a refund; and desire to delay or interfere with the tax
You may be able to deduct this some don’t file because they owe laws. This includes altering or striking
out the preprinted language above thetaxes. Encourage your family,gift on your 2008 tax return as aTIP
charitable contribution. neighbors, friends, and coworkers to do space where you sign. For a list of
their fair share by filing their federal tax positions identified as frivolous, see
Address Change returns and paying any tax due on time. Notice 2007-30, 2007-14 I.R.B. 883,
If you move after filing your return, If you or someone you know needs available at www.irs.gov/irb/
always notify the IRS of your new to file past due tax returns, visit www. 2007-14_IRB/ar20.html.
address. To do this, use Form 8822. irs.gov and click on “Individuals” for Other penalties. Other penalties can
help in filing those returns. be imposed for negligence, substantial
How Long Should Records Be
understatement of tax, reportable
Kept? Interest and Penalties transaction understatements, filing an
Keep a copy of your tax return, You do not have to figure the amount of erroneous refund claim, and fraud.
worksheets you used, and records of all any interest or penalties you may owe. Criminal penalties may be imposed for
items appearing on it (such as Forms Because figuring these amounts can be willful failure to file, tax evasion, or
W-2, 1099, and 1042-S) until the complicated, we will do it for you if you making a false statement. See Pub.
statute of limitations runs out for that want. We will send you a bill for any 519 for details on some of these
return. Usually, this is 3 years from the amount due. penalties.
Instructions for Form 1040NR -31-Page 32 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Taxpayer Assistance system or procedure is not working as it tax information to the Department of
IRS assistance is available to help you should. Treasury and contractors for tax
prepare your return. But you should You can contact the Taxpayer administration purposes; and to other
know that you are responsible for the Advocate Service by calling the TAS persons as necessary to obtain
accuracy of your return. If we do make toll-free case intake line at information that we cannot get in any
an error, you are still responsible for the 1-877-777-4778 or TTY/TDD other way in order to determine the
payment of the correct tax. 1-800-829-4059 to see if you are amount of or to collect the tax you owe.
We may disclose your tax information
In the United States, you may call eligible for assistance. If overseas, call
to the Comptroller General of the
1-800-829-1040. For TTY/TDD help, 01-787-622-8940 (English-speaking
United States to permit the Comptroller
call 1-800-829-4059. If overseas, you only) or 01-787-622-8930
General to review the Internal Revenue
may call 215-516-2000 (Spanish-speaking only). These
Service. We may disclose your tax
(English-speaking only). This number is numbers are not toll free. You also can
information to Committees of Congress;
not toll free. call or write your local taxpayer
federal, state, and local child support
advocate, whose address and phone
If you wish to write instead of call, agencies; and to other federal agencies
number are listed in your local
please address your letter to: Internal for purposes of determining entitlement
telephone directory and in Pub. 1546,
Revenue Service, International Section, for benefits or the eligibility for and the
Taxpayer Advocate Service— Your
P.O. Box 920, Bensalem, PA repayment of loans. We may also
Voice at the IRS. You can file Form
19020-8518. Make sure you include disclose this information to other
911, Request for Taxpayer Advocate
your identifying number (defined on countries under a tax treaty, to federal
Service Assistance (and Application for
page 8) when you write. and state agencies to enforce federal
Taxpayer Assistance Order), with the
nontax criminal laws, or to federal law
Assistance in answering tax Taxpayer Advocate Service, or ask an
enforcement and intelligence agencies
questions and filling out tax returns is IRS employee to complete it on your
to combat terrorism.
also available in person from IRS behalf. For more information, go to
offices in London, Paris, and Frankfurt. www.irs.gov/advocate. Keep this notice with your records. It
The offices generally are located in the may help you if we ask you for other
U.S. embassies or consulates. Disclosure, Privacy Act, and information. If you have any questions
Paperwork Reduction Act Notice.
The IRS conducts an overseas about the rules for filing and giving
We ask for the information on this form
taxpayer assistance program during the information, call or visit any Internal
to carry out the Internal Revenue laws
filing season (January to mid-June). To Revenue Service office.
of the United States. Sections 6001,
find out if IRS personnel will be in your
6011, 6012(a) and their regulations We welcome comments on forms.
area, contact the consular office at the
require that you give us information. We If you have comments or suggestions
nearest U.S. embassy.
need it to ensure that you are for making this form simpler, we would
Solving problems. You can get complying with these laws and to allow be happy to hear from you. You can
face-to-face help solving tax problems us to figure and collect the right amount email us at *taxforms@irs.gov. (The
every business day in IRS Taxpayer of tax. Section 6109 requires paid asterisk must be included in the
Assistance Centers. An employee can return preparers to provide their address.) Please put “Forms Comment”
explain IRS letters, request adjustments identifying number. on the subject line. Or you can write to
to your account, or help you set up a the Internal Revenue Service, Tax
This notice applies to all papers you
payment plan. Call your local Taxpayer Products Coordinating Committee,
file with us, including this tax return. It
Assistance Center for an appointment. SE:W:CAR:MP:T:T:SP, 1111
also applies to any questions we need
To find the number, go to www.irs.gov/ Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526,
to ask you so we can complete, correct,
localcontacts or look in a U.S. phone Washington, DC 20224. Do not send
or process your return; figure your tax;
book under “United States Government, your return to this address. Instead, see
and collect tax, interest, or penalties.
Internal Revenue Service.” Where To File on page 4.
You are not required to provide the
How can you get IRS tax forms and
information requested on a form that is Estimates of taxpayer burden. The
publications?
subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act table below shows average burden
• You can download them from the IRS estimates for taxpayers filing a Form
unless the form displays a valid OMB
website at www.irs.gov.
control number. Books or records 1040NR. Time spent and out-of-pocket
• In the United States, you can call costs are estimated separately.
relating to a form or its instructions
1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676).
must be retained as long as their Out-of-pocket costs include any
• You can send your order to the expenses incurred by taxpayers to
contents may become material in the
National Distribution Center, P.O. Box
administration of any Internal Revenue prepare and submit their tax returns.
8903, Bloomington, IL 61702-8903
law. Examples of out-of-pocket costs include
U.S.A.
tax return preparation and submission
• You can pick them up in person from Generally, tax returns and return fees, postage, tax preparation software
our U.S. embassies and consulates information are confidential, as required
costs, photocopying costs, and phone
abroad (but only during the tax return by section 6103. However, section
calls (if not toll-free).
filing period). 6103 allows or requires the Internal
Revenue Service to disclose or give the Both time and cost burdens are
Help With Unresolved Tax
information you write on your tax return national averages and do not
Issues to others as described in the Code. For necessarily reflect a “typical” case. The
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) example, we may disclose your tax averages include all associated forms
is an independent organization within information to the Department of and schedules, across all preparation
the IRS whose employees assist Justice, to enforce the tax laws, both methods and all taxpayer activities.
taxpayers who are experiencing civil and criminal, and to cities, states, Within each of these estimates, there is
economic harm, who are seeking help the District of Columbia, U.S. significant variation in taxpayer activity.
in resolving tax problems that have not commonwealths or possessions, and Similarly, tax preparation fees vary
been resolved through normal certain foreign governments to carry out extensively depending on the
channels, or who believe that an IRS their tax laws. We may disclose your taxpayer’s tax situation and issues, the
-32- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 33 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
type of professional preparer, and the conducted in 2000 and 2001. The If you have comments concerning
geographic area. estimates are subject to change as new the time and cost estimates below, you
data becomes available. The estimates can contact us at either one of the
The data shown are the best do not include burden associated with addresses shown under We welcome
estimates available as of September post-filing activities. However, comments on forms on page 32.
28, 2007, from tax returns filed for operational IRS data indicates that
2006. The method used to estimate electronically prepared returns have
taxpayer burden incorporates results fewer errors, implying a lower overall
from a taxpayer burden survey post-filing burden.
Estimated Average Taxpayer Burden
The average time and costs required to complete and file Form 1040NR, its schedules, and accompanying forms will vary depending on
individual circumstances. The estimated averages are:
Average Hours per Return Average Dollars per Return
29.5 $204
Instructions for Form 1040NR -33-Page 34 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table Sample Table
At But Single Qualifying Married
See the instructions for line 41 that begin on page 18 to see if you can use the Tax least less Widow(er) filing
! than separately
Table below to figure your tax.
CAUTION
Your tax is—
Example. Mr. Green is filing as a qualifying widower. His taxable income on line 40
25,200 25,250 3,393 3,001 3,393
of Form 1040NR is $25,300. First, he finds the $25,300-25,350 income line. Next 25,250 25,300 3,400 3,009 3,400
he finds the column for qualifying widower and reads down the column. The H17075 25,300 25,350 3,408 3,016 3,408
amount shown where the income line and filing status column meet is $3,016. This 25,350 25,400 3,415 3,024 3,415
is the tax amount he must enter on line 41 of his Form 1040NR.
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
1,300 1,325 131 131 13105000 2,700 2,725 271 271 271
1,325 1,350 134 134 134515 111 2,725 2,750 274 274 274
1,350 1,375 136 136 13615 25 222 2,750 2,775 276 276 276
1,375 1,400 139 139 13925 50 444 2,775 2,800 279 279 279
50 75 6661,400 1,425 141 141 141 2,800 2,825 281 281 281
75 100 9991,425 1,450 144 144 144 2,825 2,850 284 284 284
100 125 11 11 11 1,450 1,475 146 146 146 2,850 2,875 286 286 286
125 150 14 14 14 1,475 1,500 149 149 149 2,875 2,900 289 289 289
150 175 16 16 16 1,500 1,525 151 151 151 2,900 2,925 291 291 291
175 200 19 19 19 1,525 1,550 154 154 154 2,925 2,950 294 294 294
200 225 21 21 21 1,550 1,575 156 156 156 2,950 2,975 296 296 296
225 250 24 24 24 1,575 1,600 159 159 159 2,975 3,000 299 299 299
250 275 26 26 26 1,600 1,625 161 161 161
275 300 29 29 29 1,625 1,650 164 164 164 3,000
1,650 1,675 166 166 166
300 325 31 31 31
325 350 34 34 34 1,675 1,700 169 169 169 3,000 3,050 303 303 303
350 375 36 36 36 1,700 1,725 171 171 171 3,050 3,100 308 308 308
375 400 39 39 39 1,725 1,750 174 174 174 3,100 3,150 313 313 313
1,750 1,775 176 176 176 3,150 3,200 318 318 318
400 425 41 41 41 1,775 1,800 179 179 179
425 450 44 44 44 3,200 3,250 323 323 323
450 475 46 46 46 1,800 1,825 181 181 181 3,250 3,300 328 328 328
475 500 49 49 49 1,825 1,850 184 184 184 3,300 3,350 333 333 333
1,850 1,875 186 186 186 3,350 3,400 338 338 338
500 525 51 51 51 1,875 1,900 189 189 189
525 550 54 54 54 3,400 3,450 343 343 343
550 575 56 56 56 1,900 1,925 191 191 191 3,450 3,500 348 348 348
575 600 59 59 59 1,925 1,950 194 194 194 3,500 3,550 353 353 353
1,950 1,975 196 196 196 3,550 3,600 358 358 358
600 625 61 61 61 1,975 2,000 199 199 199
625 650 64 64 64 3,600 3,650 363 363 363
650 675 66 66 66 2,000 3,650 3,700 368 368 368
675 700 69 69 69 3,700 3,750 373 373 373
3,750 3,800 378 378 378
700 725 71 71 71 2,000 2,025 201 201 201
725 750 74 74 74 2,025 2,050 204 204 204 3,800 3,850 383 383 383
750 775 76 76 76 2,050 2,075 206 206 206 3,850 3,900 388 388 388
775 800 79 79 79 2,075 2,100 209 209 209 3,900 3,950 393 393 393
2,100 2,125 211 211 211 3,950 4,000 398 398 398
800 825 81 81 81
825 850 84 84 84 2,125 2,150 214 214 214
850 875 86 86 86 2,150 2,175 216 216 216 4,000
875 900 89 89 89 2,175 2,200 219 219 219
4,000 4,050 403 403 403
900 925 91 91 91 2,200 2,225 221 221 221 4,050 4,100 408 408 408
925 950 94 94 94 2,225 2,250 224 224 224 4,100 4,150 413 413 413
950 975 96 96 96 2,250 2,275 226 226 226 4,150 4,200 418 418 418
975 1,000 99 99 99 2,275 2,300 229 229 229
2,300 2,325 231 231 231 4,200 4,250 423 423 423
2,325 2,350 234 234 234 4,250 4,300 428 428 428
1,000 2,350 2,375 236 236 236 4,300 4,350 433 433 433
2,375 2,400 239 239 239 4,350 4,400 438 438 438
1,000 1,025 101 101 101
1,025 1,050 104 104 104 2,400 2,425 241 241 241 4,400 4,450 443 443 443
1,050 1,075 106 106 106 2,425 2,450 244 244 244 4,450 4,500 448 448 448
1,075 1,100 109 109 109 2,450 2,475 246 246 246 4,500 4,550 453 453 453
2,475 2,500 249 249 249 4,550 4,600 458 458 458
1,100 1,125 111 111 111
1,125 1,150 114 114 114 2,500 2,525 251 251 251 4,600 4,650 463 463 463
1,150 1,175 116 116 116 2,525 2,550 254 254 254 4,650 4,700 468 468 468
1,175 1,200 119 119 119 2,550 2,575 256 256 256 4,700 4,750 473 473 473
2,575 2,600 259 259 259 4,750 4,800 478 478 478
1,200 1,225 121 121 121
1,225 1,250 124 124 124 2,600 2,625 261 261 261 4,800 4,850 483 483 483
1,250 1,275 126 126 126 2,625 2,650 264 264 264 4,850 4,900 488 488 488
1,275 1,300 129 129 129 2,650 2,675 266 266 266 4,900 4,950 493 493 493
2,675 2,700 269 269 269 4,950 5,000 498 498 498
(Continued on page 35)
- 34 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 35 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
5,000 8,000 11,000
5,000 5,050 503 503 503 8,000 8,050 813 803 813 11,000 11,050 1,263 1,103 1,263
5,050 5,100 508 508 508 8,050 8,100 820 808 820 11,050 11,100 1,270 1,108 1,270
5,100 5,150 513 513 513 8,100 8,150 828 813 828 11,100 11,150 1,278 1,113 1,278
5,150 5,200 518 518 518 8,150 8,200 835 818 835 11,150 11,200 1,285 1,118 1,285
5,200 5,250 523 523 523 8,200 8,250 843 823 843 11,200 11,250 1,293 1,123 1,293
5,250 5,300 528 528 528 8,250 8,300 850 828 850 11,250 11,300 1,300 1,128 1,300
5,300 5,350 533 533 533 8,300 8,350 858 833 858 11,300 11,350 1,308 1,133 1,308
5,350 5,400 538 538 538 8,350 8,400 865 838 865 11,350 11,400 1,315 1,138 1,315
5,400 5,450 543 543 543 8,400 8,450 873 843 873 11,400 11,450 1,323 1,143 1,323
5,450 5,500 548 548 548 8,450 8,500 880 848 880 11,450 11,500 1,330 1,148 1,330
5,500 5,550 553 553 553 8,500 8,550 888 853 888 11,500 11,550 1,338 1,153 1,338
5,550 5,600 558 558 558 8,550 8,600 895 858 895 11,550 11,600 1,345 1,158 1,345
5,600 5,650 563 563 563 8,600 8,650 903 863 903 11,600 11,650 1,353 1,163 1,353
5,650 5,700 568 568 568 8,650 8,700 910 868 910 11,650 11,700 1,360 1,168 1,360
5,700 5,750 573 573 573 8,700 8,750 918 873 918 11,700 11,750 1,368 1,173 1,368
5,750 5,800 578 578 578 8,750 8,800 925 878 925 11,750 11,800 1,375 1,178 1,375
5,800 5,850 583 583 583 8,800 8,850 933 883 933 11,800 11,850 1,383 1,183 1,383
5,850 5,900 588 588 588 8,850 8,900 940 888 940 11,850 11,900 1,390 1,188 1,390
5,900 5,950 593 593 593 8,900 8,950 948 893 948 11,900 11,950 1,398 1,193 1,398
5,950 6,000 598 598 598 8,950 9,000 955 898 955 11,950 12,000 1,405 1,198 1,405
6,000 9,000 12,000
6,000 6,050 603 603 603 9,000 9,050 963 903 963 12,000 12,050 1,413 1,203 1,413
6,050 6,100 608 608 608 9,050 9,100 970 908 970 12,050 12,100 1,420 1,208 1,420
6,100 6,150 613 613 613 9,100 9,150 978 913 978 12,100 12,150 1,428 1,213 1,428
6,150 6,200 618 618 618 9,150 9,200 985 918 985 12,150 12,200 1,435 1,218 1,435
6,200 6,250 623 623 623 9,200 9,250 993 923 993 12,200 12,250 1,443 1,223 1,443
6,250 6,300 628 628 628 9,250 9,300 1,000 928 1,000 12,250 12,300 1,450 1,228 1,450
6,300 6,350 633 633 633 9,300 9,350 1,008 933 1,008 12,300 12,350 1,458 1,233 1,458
6,350 6,400 638 638 638 9,350 9,400 1,015 938 1,015 12,350 12,400 1,465 1,238 1,465
6,400 6,450 643 643 643 9,400 9,450 1,023 943 1,023 12,400 12,450 1,473 1,243 1,473
6,450 6,500 648 648 648 9,450 9,500 1,030 948 1,030 12,450 12,500 1,480 1,248 1,480
6,500 6,550 653 653 653 9,500 9,550 1,038 953 1,038 12,500 12,550 1,488 1,253 1,488
6,550 6,600 658 658 658 9,550 9,600 1,045 958 1,045 12,550 12,600 1,495 1,258 1,495
6,600 6,650 663 663 663 9,600 9,650 1,053 963 1,053 12,600 12,650 1,503 1,263 1,503
6,650 6,700 668 668 668 9,650 9,700 1,060 968 1,060 12,650 12,700 1,510 1,268 1,510
6,700 6,750 673 673 673 9,700 9,750 1,068 973 1,068 12,700 12,750 1,518 1,273 1,518
6,750 6,800 678 678 678 9,750 9,800 1,075 978 1,075 12,750 12,800 1,525 1,278 1,525
6,800 6,850 683 683 683 9,800 9,850 1,083 983 1,083 12,800 12,850 1,533 1,283 1,533
6,850 6,900 688 688 688 9,850 9,900 1,090 988 1,090 12,850 12,900 1,540 1,288 1,540
6,900 6,950 693 693 693 9,900 9,950 1,098 993 1,098 12,900 12,950 1,548 1,293 1,548
6,950 7,000 698 698 698 9,950 10,000 1,105 998 1,105 12,950 13,000 1,555 1,298 1,555
7,000 10,000 13,000
7,000 7,050 703 703 703 10,000 10,050 1,113 1,003 1,113 13,000 13,050 1,563 1,303 1,563
7,050 7,100 708 708 708 10,050 10,100 1,120 1,008 1,120 13,050 13,100 1,570 1,308 1,570
7,100 7,150 713 713 713 10,100 10,150 1,128 1,013 1,128 13,100 13,150 1,578 1,313 1,578
7,150 7,200 718 718 718 10,150 10,200 1,135 1,018 1,135 13,150 13,200 1,585 1,318 1,585
7,200 7,250 723 723 723 10,200 10,250 1,143 1,023 1,143 13,200 13,250 1,593 1,323 1,593
7,250 7,300 728 728 728 10,250 10,300 1,150 1,028 1,150 13,250 13,300 1,600 1,328 1,600
7,300 7,350 733 733 733 10,300 10,350 1,158 1,033 1,158 13,300 13,350 1,608 1,333 1,608
7,350 7,400 738 738 738 10,350 10,400 1,165 1,038 1,165 13,350 13,400 1,615 1,338 1,615
7,400 7,450 743 743 743 10,400 10,450 1,173 1,043 1,173 13,400 13,450 1,623 1,343 1,623
7,450 7,500 748 748 748 10,450 10,500 1,180 1,048 1,180 13,450 13,500 1,630 1,348 1,630
7,500 7,550 753 753 753 10,500 10,550 1,188 1,053 1,188 13,500 13,550 1,638 1,353 1,638
7,550 7,600 758 758 758 10,550 10,600 1,195 1,058 1,195 13,550 13,600 1,645 1,358 1,645
7,600 7,650 763 763 763 10,600 10,650 1,203 1,063 1,203 13,600 13,650 1,653 1,363 1,653
7,650 7,700 768 768 768 10,650 10,700 1,210 1,068 1,210 13,650 13,700 1,660 1,368 1,660
7,700 7,750 773 773 773 10,700 10,750 1,218 1,073 1,218 13,700 13,750 1,668 1,373 1,668
7,750 7,800 778 778 778 10,750 10,800 1,225 1,078 1,225 13,750 13,800 1,675 1,378 1,675
7,800 7,850 783 783 783 10,800 10,850 1,233 1,083 1,233 13,800 13,850 1,683 1,383 1,683
7,850 7,900 790 788 790 10,850 10,900 1,240 1,088 1,240 13,850 13,900 1,690 1,388 1,690
7,900 7,950 798 793 798 10,900 10,950 1,248 1,093 1,248 13,900 13,950 1,698 1,393 1,698
7,950 8,000 805 798 805 10,950 11,000 1,255 1,098 1,255 13,950 14,000 1,705 1,398 1,705
(Continued on page 36)
Instructions for Form 1040NR - 35 -Page 36 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
14,000 17,000 20,000
14,000 14,050 1,713 1,403 1,713 17,000 17,050 2,163 1,771 2,163 20,000 20,050 2,613 2,221 2,613
14,050 14,100 1,720 1,408 1,720 17,050 17,100 2,170 1,779 2,170 20,050 20,100 2,620 2,229 2,620
14,100 14,150 1,728 1,413 1,728 17,100 17,150 2,178 1,786 2,178 20,100 20,150 2,628 2,236 2,628
14,150 14,200 1,735 1,418 1,735 17,150 17,200 2,185 1,794 2,185 20,150 20,200 2,635 2,244 2,635
14,200 14,250 1,743 1,423 1,743 17,200 17,250 2,193 1,801 2,193 20,200 20,250 2,643 2,251 2,643
14,250 14,300 1,750 1,428 1,750 17,250 17,300 2,200 1,809 2,200 20,250 20,300 2,650 2,259 2,650
14,300 14,350 1,758 1,433 1,758 17,300 17,350 2,208 1,816 2,208 20,300 20,350 2,658 2,266 2,658
14,350 14,400 1,765 1,438 1,765 17,350 17,400 2,215 1,824 2,215 20,350 20,400 2,665 2,274 2,665
14,400 14,450 1,773 1,443 1,773 17,400 17,450 2,223 1,831 2,223 20,400 20,450 2,673 2,281 2,673
14,450 14,500 1,780 1,448 1,780 17,450 17,500 2,230 1,839 2,230 20,450 20,500 2,680 2,289 2,680
14,500 14,550 1,788 1,453 1,788 17,500 17,550 2,238 1,846 2,238 20,500 20,550 2,688 2,296 2,688
14,550 14,600 1,795 1,458 1,795 17,550 17,600 2,245 1,854 2,245 20,550 20,600 2,695 2,304 2,695
14,600 14,650 1,803 1,463 1,803 17,600 17,650 2,253 1,861 2,253 20,600 20,650 2,703 2,311 2,703
14,650 14,700 1,810 1,468 1,810 17,650 17,700 2,260 1,869 2,260 20,650 20,700 2,710 2,319 2,710
14,700 14,750 1,818 1,473 1,818 17,700 17,750 2,268 1,876 2,268 20,700 20,750 2,718 2,326 2,718
14,750 14,800 1,825 1,478 1,825 17,750 17,800 2,275 1,884 2,275 20,750 20,800 2,725 2,334 2,725
14,800 14,850 1,833 1,483 1,833 17,800 17,850 2,283 1,891 2,283 20,800 20,850 2,733 2,341 2,733
14,850 14,900 1,840 1,488 1,840 17,850 17,900 2,290 1,899 2,290 20,850 20,900 2,740 2,349 2,740
14,900 14,950 1,848 1,493 1,848 17,900 17,950 2,298 1,906 2,298 20,900 20,950 2,748 2,356 2,748
14,950 15,000 1,855 1,498 1,855 17,950 18,000 2,305 1,914 2,305 20,950 21,000 2,755 2,364 2,755
15,000 18,000 21,000
15,000 15,050 1,863 1,503 1,863 18,000 18,050 2,313 1,921 2,313 21,000 21,050 2,763 2,371 2,763
15,050 15,100 1,870 1,508 1,870 18,050 18,100 2,320 1,929 2,320 21,050 21,100 2,770 2,379 2,770
15,100 15,150 1,878 1,513 1,878 18,100 18,150 2,328 1,936 2,328 21,100 21,150 2,778 2,386 2,778
15,150 15,200 1,885 1,518 1,885 18,150 18,200 2,335 1,944 2,335 21,150 21,200 2,785 2,394 2,785
15,200 15,250 1,893 1,523 1,893 18,200 18,250 2,343 1,951 2,343 21,200 21,250 2,793 2,401 2,793
15,250 15,300 1,900 1,528 1,900 18,250 18,300 2,350 1,959 2,350 21,250 21,300 2,800 2,409 2,800
15,300 15,350 1,908 1,533 1,908 18,300 18,350 2,358 1,966 2,358 21,300 21,350 2,808 2,416 2,808
15,350 15,400 1,915 1,538 1,915 18,350 18,400 2,365 1,974 2,365 21,350 21,400 2,815 2,424 2,815
15,400 15,450 1,923 1,543 1,923 18,400 18,450 2,373 1,981 2,373 21,400 21,450 2,823 2,431 2,823
15,450 15,500 1,930 1,548 1,930 18,450 18,500 2,380 1,989 2,380 21,450 21,500 2,830 2,439 2,830
15,500 15,550 1,938 1,553 1,938 18,500 18,550 2,388 1,996 2,388 21,500 21,550 2,838 2,446 2,838
15,550 15,600 1,945 1,558 1,945 18,550 18,600 2,395 2,004 2,395 21,550 21,600 2,845 2,454 2,845
15,600 15,650 1,953 1,563 1,953 18,600 18,650 2,403 2,011 2,403 21,600 21,650 2,853 2,461 2,853
15,650 15,700 1,960 1,569 1,960 18,650 18,700 2,410 2,019 2,410 21,650 21,700 2,860 2,469 2,860
15,700 15,750 1,968 1,576 1,968 18,700 18,750 2,418 2,026 2,418 21,700 21,750 2,868 2,476 2,868
15,750 15,800 1,975 1,584 1,975 18,750 18,800 2,425 2,034 2,425 21,750 21,800 2,875 2,484 2,875
15,800 15,850 1,983 1,591 1,983 18,800 18,850 2,433 2,041 2,433 21,800 21,850 2,883 2,491 2,883
15,850 15,900 1,990 1,599 1,990 18,850 18,900 2,440 2,049 2,440 21,850 21,900 2,890 2,499 2,890
15,900 15,950 1,998 1,606 1,998 18,900 18,950 2,448 2,056 2,448 21,900 21,950 2,898 2,506 2,898
15,950 16,000 2,005 1,614 2,005 18,950 19,000 2,455 2,064 2,455 21,950 22,000 2,905 2,514 2,905
16,000 19,000 22,000
16,000 16,050 2,013 1,621 2,013 19,000 19,050 2,463 2,071 2,463 22,000 22,050 2,913 2,521 2,913
16,050 16,100 2,020 1,629 2,020 19,050 19,100 2,470 2,079 2,470 22,050 22,100 2,920 2,529 2,920
16,100 16,150 2,028 1,636 2,028 19,100 19,150 2,478 2,086 2,478 22,100 22,150 2,928 2,536 2,928
16,150 16,200 2,035 1,644 2,035 19,150 19,200 2,485 2,094 2,485 22,150 22,200 2,935 2,544 2,935
16,200 16,250 2,043 1,651 2,043 19,200 19,250 2,493 2,101 2,493 22,200 22,250 2,943 2,551 2,943
16,250 16,300 2,050 1,659 2,050 19,250 19,300 2,500 2,109 2,500 22,250 22,300 2,950 2,559 2,950
16,300 16,350 2,058 1,666 2,058 19,300 19,350 2,508 2,116 2,508 22,300 22,350 2,958 2,566 2,958
16,350 16,400 2,065 1,674 2,065 19,350 19,400 2,515 2,124 2,515 22,350 22,400 2,965 2,574 2,965
16,400 16,450 2,073 1,681 2,073 19,400 19,450 2,523 2,131 2,523 22,400 22,450 2,973 2,581 2,973
16,450 16,500 2,080 1,689 2,080 19,450 19,500 2,530 2,139 2,530 22,450 22,500 2,980 2,589 2,980
16,500 16,550 2,088 1,696 2,088 19,500 19,550 2,538 2,146 2,538 22,500 22,550 2,988 2,596 2,988
16,550 16,600 2,095 1,704 2,095 19,550 19,600 2,545 2,154 2,545 22,550 22,600 2,995 2,604 2,995
16,600 16,650 2,103 1,711 2,103 19,600 19,650 2,553 2,161 2,553 22,600 22,650 3,003 2,611 3,003
16,650 16,700 2,110 1,719 2,110 19,650 19,700 2,560 2,169 2,560 22,650 22,700 3,010 2,619 3,010
16,700 16,750 2,118 1,726 2,118 19,700 19,750 2,568 2,176 2,568 22,700 22,750 3,018 2,626 3,018
16,750 16,800 2,125 1,734 2,125 19,750 19,800 2,575 2,184 2,575 22,750 22,800 3,025 2,634 3,025
16,800 16,850 2,133 1,741 2,133 19,800 19,850 2,583 2,191 2,583 22,800 22,850 3,033 2,641 3,033
16,850 16,900 2,140 1,749 2,140 19,850 19,900 2,590 2,199 2,590 22,850 22,900 3,040 2,649 3,040
16,900 16,950 2,148 1,756 2,148 19,900 19,950 2,598 2,206 2,598 22,900 22,950 3,048 2,656 3,048
16,950 17,000 2,155 1,764 2,155 19,950 20,000 2,605 2,214 2,605 22,950 23,000 3,055 2,664 3,055
(Continued on page 37)
- 36 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 37 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
23,000 26,000 29,000
23,000 23,050 3,063 2,671 3,063 26,000 26,050 3,513 3,121 3,513 29,000 29,050 3,963 3,571 3,963
23,050 23,100 3,070 2,679 3,070 26,050 26,100 3,520 3,129 3,520 29,050 29,100 3,970 3,579 3,970
23,100 23,150 3,078 2,686 3,078 26,100 26,150 3,528 3,136 3,528 29,100 29,150 3,978 3,586 3,978
23,150 23,200 3,085 2,694 3,085 26,150 26,200 3,535 3,144 3,535 29,150 29,200 3,985 3,594 3,985
23,200 23,250 3,093 2,701 3,093 26,200 26,250 3,543 3,151 3,543 29,200 29,250 3,993 3,601 3,993
23,250 23,300 3,100 2,709 3,100 26,250 26,300 3,550 3,159 3,550 29,250 29,300 4,000 3,609 4,000
23,300 23,350 3,108 2,716 3,108 26,300 26,350 3,558 3,166 3,558 29,300 29,350 4,008 3,616 4,008
23,350 23,400 3,115 2,724 3,115 26,350 26,400 3,565 3,174 3,565 29,350 29,400 4,015 3,624 4,015
23,400 23,450 3,123 2,731 3,123 26,400 26,450 3,573 3,181 3,573 29,400 29,450 4,023 3,631 4,023
23,450 23,500 3,130 2,739 3,130 26,450 26,500 3,580 3,189 3,580 29,450 29,500 4,030 3,639 4,030
23,500 23,550 3,138 2,746 3,138 26,500 26,550 3,588 3,196 3,588 29,500 29,550 4,038 3,646 4,038
23,550 23,600 3,145 2,754 3,145 26,550 26,600 3,595 3,204 3,595 29,550 29,600 4,045 3,654 4,045
23,600 23,650 3,153 2,761 3,153 26,600 26,650 3,603 3,211 3,603 29,600 29,650 4,053 3,661 4,053
23,650 23,700 3,160 2,769 3,160 26,650 26,700 3,610 3,219 3,610 29,650 29,700 4,060 3,669 4,060
23,700 23,750 3,168 2,776 3,168 26,700 26,750 3,618 3,226 3,618 29,700 29,750 4,068 3,676 4,068
23,750 23,800 3,175 2,784 3,175 26,750 26,800 3,625 3,234 3,625 29,750 29,800 4,075 3,684 4,075
23,800 23,850 3,183 2,791 3,183 26,800 26,850 3,633 3,241 3,633 29,800 29,850 4,083 3,691 4,083
23,850 23,900 3,190 2,799 3,190 26,850 26,900 3,640 3,249 3,640 29,850 29,900 4,090 3,699 4,090
23,900 23,950 3,198 2,806 3,198 26,900 26,950 3,648 3,256 3,648 29,900 29,950 4,098 3,706 4,098
23,950 24,000 3,205 2,814 3,205 26,950 27,000 3,655 3,264 3,655 29,950 30,000 4,105 3,714 4,105
24,000 27,000 30,000
24,000 24,050 3,213 2,821 3,213 27,000 27,050 3,663 3,271 3,663 30,000 30,050 4,113 3,721 4,113
24,050 24,100 3,220 2,829 3,220 27,050 27,100 3,670 3,279 3,670 30,050 30,100 4,120 3,729 4,120
24,100 24,150 3,228 2,836 3,228 27,100 27,150 3,678 3,286 3,678 30,100 30,150 4,128 3,736 4,128
24,150 24,200 3,235 2,844 3,235 27,150 27,200 3,685 3,294 3,685 30,150 30,200 4,135 3,744 4,135
24,200 24,250 3,243 2,851 3,243 27,200 27,250 3,693 3,301 3,693 30,200 30,250 4,143 3,751 4,143
24,250 24,300 3,250 2,859 3,250 27,250 27,300 3,700 3,309 3,700 30,250 30,300 4,150 3,759 4,150
24,300 24,350 3,258 2,866 3,258 27,300 27,350 3,708 3,316 3,708 30,300 30,350 4,158 3,766 4,158
24,350 24,400 3,265 2,874 3,265 27,350 27,400 3,715 3,324 3,715 30,350 30,400 4,165 3,774 4,165
24,400 24,450 3,273 2,881 3,273 27,400 27,450 3,723 3,331 3,723 30,400 30,450 4,173 3,781 4,173
24,450 24,500 3,280 2,889 3,280 27,450 27,500 3,730 3,339 3,730 30,450 30,500 4,180 3,789 4,180
24,500 24,550 3,288 2,896 3,288 27,500 27,550 3,738 3,346 3,738 30,500 30,550 4,188 3,796 4,188
24,550 24,600 3,295 2,904 3,295 27,550 27,600 3,745 3,354 3,745 30,550 30,600 4,195 3,804 4,195
24,600 24,650 3,303 2,911 3,303 27,600 27,650 3,753 3,361 3,753 30,600 30,650 4,203 3,811 4,203
24,650 24,700 3,310 2,919 3,310 27,650 27,700 3,760 3,369 3,760 30,650 30,700 4,210 3,819 4,210
24,700 24,750 3,318 2,926 3,318 27,700 27,750 3,768 3,376 3,768 30,700 30,750 4,218 3,826 4,218
24,750 24,800 3,325 2,934 3,325 27,750 27,800 3,775 3,384 3,775 30,750 30,800 4,225 3,834 4,225
24,800 24,850 3,333 2,941 3,333 27,800 27,850 3,783 3,391 3,783 30,800 30,850 4,233 3,841 4,233
24,850 24,900 3,340 2,949 3,340 27,850 27,900 3,790 3,399 3,790 30,850 30,900 4,240 3,849 4,240
24,900 24,950 3,348 2,956 3,348 27,900 27,950 3,798 3,406 3,798 30,900 30,950 4,248 3,856 4,248
24,950 25,000 3,355 2,964 3,355 27,950 28,000 3,805 3,414 3,805 30,950 31,000 4,255 3,864 4,255
25,000 28,000 31,000
25,000 25,050 3,363 2,971 3,363 28,000 28,050 3,813 3,421 3,813 31,000 31,050 4,263 3,871 4,263
25,050 25,100 3,370 2,979 3,370 28,050 28,100 3,820 3,429 3,820 31,050 31,100 4,270 3,879 4,270
25,100 25,150 3,378 2,986 3,378 28,100 28,150 3,828 3,436 3,828 31,100 31,150 4,278 3,886 4,278
25,150 25,200 3,385 2,994 3,385 28,150 28,200 3,835 3,444 3,835 31,150 31,200 4,285 3,894 4,285
25,200 25,250 3,393 3,001 3,393 28,200 28,250 3,843 3,451 3,843 31,200 31,250 4,293 3,901 4,293
25,250 25,300 3,400 3,009 3,400 28,250 28,300 3,850 3,459 3,850 31,250 31,300 4,300 3,909 4,300
25,300 25,350 3,408 3,016 3,408 28,300 28,350 3,858 3,466 3,858 31,300 31,350 4,308 3,916 4,308
25,350 25,400 3,415 3,024 3,415 28,350 28,400 3,865 3,474 3,865 31,350 31,400 4,315 3,924 4,315
25,400 25,450 3,423 3,031 3,423 28,400 28,450 3,873 3,481 3,873 31,400 31,450 4,323 3,931 4,323
25,450 25,500 3,430 3,039 3,430 28,450 28,500 3,880 3,489 3,880 31,450 31,500 4,330 3,939 4,330
25,500 25,550 3,438 3,046 3,438 28,500 28,550 3,888 3,496 3,888 31,500 31,550 4,338 3,946 4,338
25,550 25,600 3,445 3,054 3,445 28,550 28,600 3,895 3,504 3,895 31,550 31,600 4,345 3,954 4,345
25,600 25,650 3,453 3,061 3,453 28,600 28,650 3,903 3,511 3,903 31,600 31,650 4,353 3,961 4,353
25,650 25,700 3,460 3,069 3,460 28,650 28,700 3,910 3,519 3,910 31,650 31,700 4,360 3,969 4,360
25,700 25,750 3,468 3,076 3,468 28,700 28,750 3,918 3,526 3,918 31,700 31,750 4,368 3,976 4,368
25,750 25,800 3,475 3,084 3,475 28,750 28,800 3,925 3,534 3,925 31,750 31,800 4,375 3,984 4,375
25,800 25,850 3,483 3,091 3,483 28,800 28,850 3,933 3,541 3,933 31,800 31,850 4,383 3,991 4,383
25,850 25,900 3,490 3,099 3,490 28,850 28,900 3,940 3,549 3,940 31,850 31,900 4,393 3,999 4,393
25,900 25,950 3,498 3,106 3,498 28,900 28,950 3,948 3,556 3,948 31,900 31,950 4,405 4,006 4,405
25,950 26,000 3,505 3,114 3,505 28,950 29,000 3,955 3,564 3,955 31,950 32,000 4,418 4,014 4,418
(Continued on page 38)
Instructions for Form 1040NR - 37 -Page 38 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
32,000 35,000 38,000
32,000 32,050 4,430 4,021 4,430 35,000 35,050 5,180 4,471 5,180 38,000 38,050 5,930 4,921 5,930
32,050 32,100 4,443 4,029 4,443 35,050 35,100 5,193 4,479 5,193 38,050 38,100 5,943 4,929 5,943
32,100 32,150 4,455 4,036 4,455 35,100 35,150 5,205 4,486 5,205 38,100 38,150 5,955 4,936 5,955
32,150 32,200 4,468 4,044 4,468 35,150 35,200 5,218 4,494 5,218 38,150 38,200 5,968 4,944 5,968
32,200 32,250 4,480 4,051 4,480 35,200 35,250 5,230 4,501 5,230 38,200 38,250 5,980 4,951 5,980
32,250 32,300 4,493 4,059 4,493 35,250 35,300 5,243 4,509 5,243 38,250 38,300 5,993 4,959 5,993
32,300 32,350 4,505 4,066 4,505 35,300 35,350 5,255 4,516 5,255 38,300 38,350 6,005 4,966 6,005
32,350 32,400 4,518 4,074 4,518 35,350 35,400 5,268 4,524 5,268 38,350 38,400 6,018 4,974 6,018
32,400 32,450 4,530 4,081 4,530 35,400 35,450 5,280 4,531 5,280 38,400 38,450 6,030 4,981 6,030
32,450 32,500 4,543 4,089 4,543 35,450 35,500 5,293 4,539 5,293 38,450 38,500 6,043 4,989 6,043
32,500 32,550 4,555 4,096 4,555 35,500 35,550 5,305 4,546 5,305 38,500 38,550 6,055 4,996 6,055
32,550 32,600 4,568 4,104 4,568 35,550 35,600 5,318 4,554 5,318 38,550 38,600 6,068 5,004 6,068
32,600 32,650 4,580 4,111 4,580 35,600 35,650 5,330 4,561 5,330 38,600 38,650 6,080 5,011 6,080
32,650 32,700 4,593 4,119 4,593 35,650 35,700 5,343 4,569 5,343 38,650 38,700 6,093 5,019 6,093
32,700 32,750 4,605 4,126 4,605 35,700 35,750 5,355 4,576 5,355 38,700 38,750 6,105 5,026 6,105
32,750 32,800 4,618 4,134 4,618 35,750 35,800 5,368 4,584 5,368 38,750 38,800 6,118 5,034 6,118
32,800 32,850 4,630 4,141 4,630 35,800 35,850 5,380 4,591 5,380 38,800 38,850 6,130 5,041 6,130
32,850 32,900 4,643 4,149 4,643 35,850 35,900 5,393 4,599 5,393 38,850 38,900 6,143 5,049 6,143
32,900 32,950 4,655 4,156 4,655 35,900 35,950 5,405 4,606 5,405 38,900 38,950 6,155 5,056 6,155
32,950 33,000 4,668 4,164 4,668 35,950 36,000 5,418 4,614 5,418 38,950 39,000 6,168 5,064 6,168
33,000 36,000 39,000
33,000 33,050 4,680 4,171 4,680 36,000 36,050 5,430 4,621 5,430 39,000 39,050 6,180 5,071 6,180
33,050 33,100 4,693 4,179 4,693 36,050 36,100 5,443 4,629 5,443 39,050 39,100 6,193 5,079 6,193
33,100 33,150 4,705 4,186 4,705 36,100 36,150 5,455 4,636 5,455 39,100 39,150 6,205 5,086 6,205
33,150 33,200 4,718 4,194 4,718 36,150 36,200 5,468 4,644 5,468 39,150 39,200 6,218 5,094 6,218
33,200 33,250 4,730 4,201 4,730 36,200 36,250 5,480 4,651 5,480 39,200 39,250 6,230 5,101 6,230
33,250 33,300 4,743 4,209 4,743 36,250 36,300 5,493 4,659 5,493 39,250 39,300 6,243 5,109 6,243
33,300 33,350 4,755 4,216 4,755 36,300 36,350 5,505 4,666 5,505 39,300 39,350 6,255 5,116 6,255
33,350 33,400 4,768 4,224 4,768 36,350 36,400 5,518 4,674 5,518 39,350 39,400 6,268 5,124 6,268
33,400 33,450 4,780 4,231 4,780 36,400 36,450 5,530 4,681 5,530 39,400 39,450 6,280 5,131 6,280
33,450 33,500 4,793 4,239 4,793 36,450 36,500 5,543 4,689 5,543 39,450 39,500 6,293 5,139 6,293
33,500 33,550 4,805 4,246 4,805 36,500 36,550 5,555 4,696 5,555 39,500 39,550 6,305 5,146 6,305
33,550 33,600 4,818 4,254 4,818 36,550 36,600 5,568 4,704 5,568 39,550 39,600 6,318 5,154 6,318
33,600 33,650 4,830 4,261 4,830 36,600 36,650 5,580 4,711 5,580 39,600 39,650 6,330 5,161 6,330
33,650 33,700 4,843 4,269 4,843 36,650 36,700 5,593 4,719 5,593 39,650 39,700 6,343 5,169 6,343
33,700 33,750 4,855 4,276 4,855 36,700 36,750 5,605 4,726 5,605 39,700 39,750 6,355 5,176 6,355
33,750 33,800 4,868 4,284 4,868 36,750 36,800 5,618 4,734 5,618 39,750 39,800 6,368 5,184 6,368
33,800 33,850 4,880 4,291 4,880 36,800 36,850 5,630 4,741 5,630 39,800 39,850 6,380 5,191 6,380
33,850 33,900 4,893 ,299 4,893 36,850 36,900 5,643 4,749 5,643 39,850 39,900 6,393 5,199 6,393
33,900 33,950 4,905 4,306 4,905 36,900 36,950 5,655 4,756 5,655 39,900 39,950 6,405 5,206 6,405
33,950 34,000 4,918 4,314 4,918 36,950 37,000 5,668 4,764 5,668 39,950 40,000 6,418 5,214 6,418
34,000 37,000 40,000
34,000 34,050 4,930 4,321 4,930 37,000 37,050 5,680 4,771 5,680 40,000 40,050 6,430 5,221 6,430
34,050 34,100 4,943 4,329 4,943 37,050 37,100 5,693 4,779 5,693 40,050 40,100 6,443 5,229 6,443
34,100 34,150 4,955 4,336 4,955 37,100 37,150 5,705 4,786 5,705 40,100 40,150 6,455 5,236 6,455
34,150 34,200 4,968 4,344 4,968 37,150 37,200 5,718 4,794 5,718 40,150 40,200 6,468 5,244 6,468
34,200 34,250 4,980 4,351 4,980 37,200 37,250 5,730 4,801 5,730 40,200 40,250 6,480 5,251 6,480
34,250 34,300 4,993 4,359 4,993 37,250 37,300 5,743 4,809 5,743 40,250 40,300 6,493 5,259 6,493
34,300 34,350 5,005 4,366 5,005 37,300 37,350 5,755 4,816 5,755 40,300 40,350 6,505 5,266 6,505
34,350 34,400 5,018 4,374 5,018 37,350 37,400 5,768 4,824 5,768 40,350 40,400 6,518 5,274 6,518
34,400 34,450 5,030 4,381 5,030 37,400 37,450 5,780 4,831 5,780 40,400 40,450 6,530 5,281 6,530
34,450 34,500 5,043 4,389 5,043 37,450 37,500 5,793 4,839 5,793 40,450 40,500 6,543 5,289 6,543
34,500 34,550 5,055 4,396 5,055 37,500 37,550 5,805 4,846 5,805 40,500 40,550 6,555 5,296 6,555
34,550 34,600 5,068 4,404 5,068 37,550 37,600 5,818 4,854 5,818 40,550 40,600 6,568 5,304 6,568
34,600 34,650 5,080 4,411 5,080 37,600 37,650 5,830 4,861 5,830 40,600 40,650 6,580 5,311 6,580
34,650 34,700 5,093 4,419 5,093 37,650 37,700 5,843 4,869 5,843 40,650 40,700 6,593 5,319 6,593
34,700 34,750 5,105 4,426 5,105 37,700 37,750 5,855 4,876 5,855 40,700 40,750 6,605 5,326 6,605
34,750 34,800 5,118 4,434 5,118 37,750 37,800 5,868 4,884 5,868 40,750 40,800 6,618 5,334 6,618
34,800 34,850 5,130 4,441 5,130 37,800 37,850 5,880 4,891 5,880 40,800 40,850 6,630 5,341 6,630
34,850 34,900 5,143 4,449 5,143 37,850 37,900 5,893 4,899 5,893 40,850 40,900 6,643 5,349 6,643
34,900 34,950 5,155 4,456 5,155 37,900 37,950 5,905 4,906 5,905 40,900 40,950 6,655 5,356 6,655
34,950 35,000 5,168 4,464 5,168 37,950 38,000 5,918 4,914 5,918 40,950 41,000 6,668 5,364 6,668
(Continued on page 39)
- 38 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 39 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
41,000 44,000 47,000
41,000 41,050 6,680 5,371 6,680 44,000 44,050 7,430 5,821 7,430 47,000 47,050 8,180 6,271 8,180
41,050 41,100 6,693 5,379 6,693 44,050 44,100 7,443 5,829 7,443 47,050 47,100 8,193 6,279 8,193
41,100 41,150 6,705 5,386 6,705 44,100 44,150 7,455 5,836 7,455 47,100 47,150 8,205 6,286 8,205
41,150 41,200 6,718 5,394 6,718 44,150 44,200 7,468 5,844 7,468 47,150 47,200 8,218 6,294 8,218
41,200 41,250 6,730 5,401 6,730 44,200 44,250 7,480 5,851 7,480 47,200 47,250 8,230 6,301 8,230
41,250 41,300 6,743 5,409 6,743 44,250 44,300 7,493 5,859 7,493 47,250 47,300 8,243 6,309 8,243
41,300 41,350 6,755 5,416 6,755 44,300 44,350 7,505 5,866 7,505 47,300 47,350 8,255 6,316 8,255
41,350 41,400 6,768 5,424 6,768 44,350 44,400 7,518 5,874 7,518 47,350 47,400 8,268 6,324 8,268
41,400 41,450 6,780 5,431 6,780 44,400 44,450 7,530 5,881 7,530 47,400 47,450 8,280 6,331 8,280
41,450 41,500 6,793 5,439 6,793 44,450 44,500 7,543 5,889 7,543 47,450 47,500 8,293 6,339 8,293
41,500 41,550 6,805 5,446 6,805 44,500 44,550 7,555 5,896 7,555 47,500 47,550 8,305 6,346 8,305
41,550 41,600 6,818 5,454 6,818 44,550 44,600 7,568 5,904 7,568 47,550 47,600 8,318 6,354 8,318
41,600 41,650 6,830 5,461 6,830 44,600 44,650 7,580 5,911 7,580 47,600 47,650 8,330 6,361 8,330
41,650 41,700 6,843 5,469 6,843 44,650 44,700 7,593 5,919 7,593 47,650 47,700 8,343 6,369 8,343
41,700 41,750 6,855 5,476 6,855 44,700 44,750 7,605 5,926 7,605 47,700 47,750 8,355 6,376 8,355
41,750 41,800 6,868 5,484 6,868 44,750 44,800 7,618 5,934 7,618 47,750 47,800 8,368 6,384 8,368
41,800 41,850 6,880 5,491 6,880 44,800 44,850 7,630 5,941 7,630 47,800 47,850 8,380 6,391 8,380
41,850 41,900 6,893 5,499 6,893 44,850 44,900 7,643 5,949 7,643 47,850 47,900 8,393 6,399 8,393
41,900 41,950 6,905 5,506 6,905 44,900 44,950 7,655 5,956 7,655 47,900 47,950 8,405 6,406 8,405
41,950 42,000 6,918 5,514 6,918 44,950 45,000 7,668 5,964 7,668 47,950 48,000 8,418 6,414 8,418
42,000 45,000 48,000
42,000 42,050 6,930 5,521 6,930 45,000 45,050 7,680 5,971 7,680 48,000 48,050 8,430 6,421 8,430
42,050 42,100 6,943 5,529 6,943 45,050 45,100 7,693 5,979 7,693 48,050 48,100 8,443 6,429 8,443
42,100 42,150 6,955 5,536 6,955 45,100 45,150 7,705 5,986 7,705 48,100 48,150 8,455 6,436 8,455
42,150 42,200 6,968 5,544 6,968 45,150 45,200 7,718 5,994 7,718 48,150 48,200 8,468 6,444 8,468
42,200 42,250 6,980 5,551 6,980 45,200 45,250 7,730 6,001 7,730 48,200 48,250 8,480 6,451 8,480
42,250 42,300 6,993 5,559 6,993 45,250 45,300 7,743 6,009 7,743 48,250 48,300 8,493 6,459 8,493
42,300 42,350 7,005 5,566 7,005 45,300 45,350 7,755 6,016 7,755 48,300 48,350 8,505 6,466 8,505
42,350 42,400 7,018 5,574 7,018 45,350 45,400 7,768 6,024 7,768 48,350 48,400 8,518 6,474 8,518
42,400 42,450 7,030 5,581 7,030 45,400 45,450 7,780 6,031 7,780 48,400 48,450 8,530 6,481 8,530
42,450 42,500 7,043 5,589 7,043 45,450 45,500 7,793 6,039 7,793 48,450 48,500 8,543 6,489 8,543
42,500 42,550 7,055 5,596 7,055 45,500 45,550 7,805 6,046 7,805 48,500 48,550 8,555 6,496 8,555
42,550 42,600 7,068 5,604 7,068 45,550 45,600 7,818 6,054 7,818 48,550 48,600 8,568 6,504 8,568
42,600 42,650 7,080 5,611 7,080 45,600 45,650 7,830 6,061 7,830 48,600 48,650 8,580 6,511 8,580
42,650 42,700 7,093 5,619 7,093 45,650 45,700 7,843 6,069 7,843 48,650 48,700 8,593 6,519 8,593
42,700 42,750 7,105 5,626 7,105 45,700 45,750 7,855 6,076 7,855 48,700 48,750 8,605 6,526 8,605
42,750 42,800 7,118 5,634 7,118 45,750 45,800 7,868 6,084 7,868 48,750 48,800 8,618 6,534 8,618
42,800 42,850 7,130 5,641 7,130 45,800 45,850 7,880 6,091 7,880 48,800 48,850 8,630 6,541 8,630
42,850 42,900 7,143 5,649 7,143 45,850 45,900 7,893 6,099 7,893 48,850 48,900 8,643 6,549 8,643
42,900 42,950 7,155 5,656 7,155 45,900 45,950 7,905 6,106 7,905 48,900 48,950 8,655 6,556 8,655
42,950 43,000 7,168 5,664 7,168 45,950 46,000 7,918 6,114 7,918 48,950 49,000 8,668 6,564 8,668
43,000 46,000 49,000
43,000 43,050 7,180 5,671 7,180 46,000 46,050 7,930 6,121 7,930 49,000 49,050 8,680 6,571 8,680
43,050 43,100 7,193 5,679 7,193 46,050 46,100 7,943 6,129 7,943 49,050 49,100 8,693 6,579 8,693
43,100 43,150 7,205 5,686 7,205 46,100 46,150 7,955 6,136 7,955 49,100 49,150 8,705 6,586 8,705
43,150 43,200 7,218 5,694 7,218 46,150 46,200 7,968 6,144 7,968 49,150 49,200 8,718 6,594 8,718
43,200 43,250 7,230 5,701 7,230 46,200 46,250 7,980 6,151 7,980 49,200 49,250 8,730 6,601 8,730
43,250 43,300 7,243 5,709 7,243 46,250 46,300 7,993 6,159 7,993 49,250 49,300 8,743 6,609 8,743
43,300 43,350 7,255 5,716 7,255 46,300 46,350 8,005 6,166 8,005 49,300 49,350 8,755 6,616 8,755
43,350 43,400 7,268 5,724 7,268 46,350 46,400 8,018 6,174 8,018 49,350 49,400 8,768 6,624 8,768
43,400 43,450 7,280 5,731 7,280 46,400 46,450 8,030 6,181 8,030 49,400 49,450 8,780 6,631 8,780
43,450 43,500 7,293 5,739 7,293 46,450 46,500 8,043 6,189 8,043 49,450 49,500 8,793 6,639 8,793
43,500 43,550 7,305 5,746 7,305 46,500 46,550 8,055 6,196 8,055 49,500 49,550 8,805 6,646 8,805
43,550 43,600 7,318 5,754 7,318 46,550 46,600 8,068 6,204 8,068 49,550 49,600 8,818 6,654 8,818
43,600 43,650 7,330 5,761 7,330 46,600 46,650 8,080 6,211 8,080 49,600 49,650 8,830 6,661 8,830
43,650 43,700 7,343 5,769 7,343 46,650 46,700 8,093 6,219 8,093 49,650 49,700 8,843 6,669 8,843
43,700 43,750 7,355 5,776 7,355 46,700 46,750 8,105 6,226 8,105 49,700 49,750 8,855 6,676 8,855
43,750 43,800 7,368 5,784 7,368 46,750 46,800 8,118 6,234 8,118 49,750 49,800 8,868 6,684 8,868
43,800 43,850 7,380 5,791 7,380 46,800 46,850 8,130 6,241 8,130 49,800 49,850 8,880 6,691 8,880
43,850 43,900 7,393 5,799 7,393 46,850 46,900 8,143 6,249 8,143 49,850 49,900 8,893 6,699 8,893
43,900 43,950 7,405 5,806 7,405 46,900 46,950 8,155 6,256 8,155 49,900 49,950 8,905 6,706 8,905
43,950 44,000 7,418 5,814 7,418 46,950 47,000 8,168 6,264 8,168 49,950 50,000 8,918 6,714 8,918
(Continued on page 40)
Instructions for Form 1040NR - 39 -Page 40 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
50,000 53,000 56,000
50,000 50,050 8,930 6,721 8,930 53,000 53,050 9,680 7,171 9,680 56,000 56,050 10,430 7,621 10,430
50,050 50,100 8,943 6,729 8,943 53,050 53,100 9,693 7,179 9,693 56,050 56,100 10,443 7,629 10,443
50,100 50,150 8,955 6,736 8,955 53,100 53,150 9,705 7,186 9,705 56,100 56,150 10,455 7,636 10,455
50,150 50,200 8,968 6,744 8,968 53,150 53,200 9,718 7,194 9,718 56,150 56,200 10,468 7,644 10,468
50,200 50,250 8,980 6,751 8,980 53,200 53,250 9,730 7,201 9,730 56,200 56,250 10,480 7,651 10,480
50,250 50,300 8,993 6,759 8,993 53,250 53,300 9,743 7,209 9,743 56,250 56,300 10,493 7,659 10,493
50,300 50,350 9,005 6,766 9,005 53,300 53,350 9,755 7,216 9,755 56,300 56,350 10,505 7,666 10,505
50,350 50,400 9,018 6,774 9,018 53,350 53,400 9,768 7,224 9,768 56,350 56,400 10,518 7,674 10,518
50,400 50,450 9,030 6,781 9,030 53,400 53,450 9,780 7,231 9,780 56,400 56,450 10,530 7,681 10,530
50,450 50,500 9,043 6,789 9,043 53,450 53,500 9,793 7,239 9,793 56,450 56,500 10,543 7,689 10,543
50,500 50,550 9,055 6,796 9,055 53,500 53,550 9,805 7,246 9,805 56,500 56,550 10,555 7,696 10,555
50,550 50,600 9,068 6,804 9,068 53,550 53,600 9,818 7,254 9,818 56,550 56,600 10,568 7,704 10,568
50,600 50,650 9,080 6,811 9,080 53,600 53,650 9,830 7,261 9,830 56,600 56,650 10,580 7,711 10,580
50,650 50,700 9,093 6,819 9,093 53,650 53,700 9,843 7,269 9,843 56,650 56,700 10,593 7,719 10,593
50,700 50,750 9,105 6,826 9,105 53,700 53,750 9,855 7,276 9,855 56,700 56,750 10,605 7,726 10,605
50,750 50,800 9,118 6,834 9,118 53,750 53,800 9,868 7,284 9,868 56,750 56,800 10,618 7,734 10,618
50,800 50,850 9,130 6,841 9,130 53,800 53,850 9,880 7,291 9,880 56,800 56,850 10,630 7,741 10,630
50,850 50,900 9,143 6,849 9,143 53,850 53,900 9,893 7,299 9,893 56,850 56,900 10,643 7,749 10,643
50,900 50,950 9,155 6,856 9,155 53,900 53,950 9,905 7,306 9,905 56,900 56,950 10,655 7,756 10,655
50,950 51,000 9,168 6,864 9,168 53,950 54,000 9,918 7,314 9,918 56,950 57,000 10,668 7,764 10,668
51,000 54,000 57,000
51,000 51,050 9,180 6,871 9,180 54,000 54,050 9,930 7,321 9,930 57,000 57,050 10,680 7,771 10,680
51,050 51,100 9,193 6,879 9,193 54,050 54,100 9,943 7,329 9,943 57,050 57,100 10,693 7,779 10,693
51,100 51,150 9,205 6,886 9,205 54,100 54,150 9,955 7,336 9,955 57,100 57,150 10,705 7,786 10,705
51,150 51,200 9,218 6,894 9,218 54,150 54,200 9,968 7,344 9,968 57,150 57,200 10,718 7,794 10,718
51,200 51,250 9,230 6,901 9,230 54,200 54,250 9,980 7,351 9,980 57,200 57,250 10,730 7,801 10,730
51,250 51,300 9,243 6,909 9,243 54,250 54,300 9,993 7,359 9,993 57,250 57,300 10,743 7,809 10,743
51,300 51,350 9,255 6,916 9,255 54,300 54,350 10,005 7,366 10,005 57,300 57,350 10,755 7,816 10,755
51,350 51,400 9,268 6,924 9,268 54,350 54,400 10,018 7,374 10,018 57,350 57,400 10,768 7,824 10,768
51,400 51,450 9,280 6,931 9,280 54,400 54,450 10,030 7,381 10,030 57,400 57,450 10,780 7,831 10,780
51,450 51,500 9,293 6,939 9,293 54,450 54,500 10,043 7,389 10,043 57,450 57,500 10,793 7,839 10,793
51,500 51,550 9,305 6,946 9,305 54,500 54,550 10,055 7,396 10,055 57,500 57,550 10,805 7,846 10,805
51,550 51,600 9,318 6,954 9,318 54,550 54,600 10,068 7,404 10,068 57,550 57,600 10,818 7,854 10,818
51,600 51,650 9,330 6,961 9,330 54,600 54,650 10,080 7,411 10,080 57,600 57,650 10,830 7,861 10,830
51,650 51,700 9,343 6,969 9,343 54,650 54,700 10,093 7,419 10,093 57,650 57,700 10,843 7,869 10,843
51,700 51,750 9,355 6,976 9,355 54,700 54,750 10,105 7,426 10,105 57,700 57,750 10,855 7,876 10,855
51,750 51,800 9,368 6,984 9,368 54,750 54,800 10,118 7,434 10,118 57,750 57,800 10,868 7,884 10,868
51,800 51,850 9,380 6,991 9,380 54,800 54,850 10,130 7,441 10,130 57,800 57,850 10,880 7,891 10,880
51,850 51,900 9,393 6,999 9,393 54,850 54,900 10,143 7,449 10,143 57,850 57,900 10,893 7,899 10,893
51,900 51,950 9,405 7,006 9,405 54,900 54,950 10,155 7,456 10,155 57,900 57,950 10,905 7,906 10,905
51,950 52,000 9,418 7,014 9,418 54,950 55,000 10,168 7,464 10,168 57,950 58,000 10,918 7,914 10,918
52,000 55,000 58,000
52,000 52,050 9,430 7,021 9,430 55,000 55,050 10,180 7,471 10,180 58,000 58,050 10,930 7,921 10,930
52,050 52,100 9,443 7,029 9,443 55,050 55,100 10,193 7,479 10,193 58,050 58,100 10,943 7,929 10,943
52,100 52,150 9,455 7,036 9,455 55,100 55,150 10,205 7,486 10,205 58,100 58,150 10,955 7,936 10,955
52,150 52,200 9,468 7,044 9,468 55,150 55,200 10,218 7,494 10,218 58,150 58,200 10,968 7,944 10,968
52,200 52,250 9,480 7,051 9,480 55,200 55,250 10,230 7,501 10,230 58,200 58,250 10,980 7,951 10,980
52,250 52,300 9,493 7,059 9,493 55,250 55,300 10,243 7,509 10,243 58,250 58,300 10,993 7,959 10,993
52,300 52,350 9,505 7,066 9,505 55,300 55,350 10,255 7,516 10,255 58,300 58,350 11,005 7,966 11,005
52,350 52,400 9,518 7,074 9,518 55,350 55,400 10,268 7,524 10,268 58,350 58,400 11,018 7,974 11,018
52,400 52,450 9,530 7,081 9,530 55,400 55,450 10,280 7,531 10,280 58,400 58,450 11,030 7,981 11,030
52,450 52,500 9,543 7,089 9,543 55,450 55,500 10,293 7,539 10,293 58,450 58,500 11,043 7,989 11,043
52,500 52,550 9,555 7,096 9,555 55,500 55,550 10,305 7,546 10,305 58,500 58,550 11,055 7,996 11,055
52,550 52,600 9,568 7,104 9,568 55,550 55,600 10,318 7,554 10,318 58,550 58,600 11,068 8,004 11,068
52,600 52,650 9,580 7,111 9,580 55,600 55,650 10,330 7,561 10,330 58,600 58,650 11,080 8,011 11,080
52,650 52,700 9,593 7,119 9,593 55,650 55,700 10,343 7,569 10,343 58,650 58,700 11,093 8,019 11,093
52,700 52,750 9,605 7,126 9,605 55,700 55,750 10,355 7,576 10,355 58,700 58,750 11,105 8,026 11,105
52,750 52,800 9,618 7,134 9,618 55,750 55,800 10,368 7,584 10,368 58,750 58,800 11,118 8,034 11,118
52,800 52,850 9,630 7,141 9,630 55,800 55,850 10,380 7,591 10,380 58,800 58,850 11,130 8,041 11,130
52,850 52,900 9,643 7,149 9,643 55,850 55,900 10,393 7,599 10,393 58,850 58,900 11,143 8,049 11,143
52,900 52,950 9,655 7,156 9,655 55,900 55,950 10,405 7,606 10,405 58,900 58,950 11,155 8,056 11,155
52,950 53,000 9,668 7,164 9,668 55,950 56,000 10,418 7,614 10,418 58,950 59,000 11,168 8,064 11,168
(Continued on page 41)
- 40 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 41 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
59,000 62,000 65,000
59,000 59,050 11,180 8,071 11,180 62,000 62,050 11,930 8,521 11,930 65,000 65,050 12,680 9,104 12,703
59,050 59,100 11,193 8,079 11,193 62,050 62,100 11,943 8,529 11,943 65,050 65,100 12,693 9,116 12,717
59,100 59,150 11,205 8,086 11,205 62,100 62,150 11,955 8,536 11,955 65,100 65,150 12,705 9,129 12,731
59,150 59,200 11,218 8,094 11,218 62,150 62,200 11,968 8,544 11,968 65,150 65,200 12,718 9,141 12,745
59,200 59,250 11,230 8,101 11,230 62,200 62,250 11,980 8,551 11,980 65,200 65,250 12,730 9,154 12,759
59,250 59,300 11,243 8,109 11,243 62,250 62,300 11,993 8,559 11,993 65,250 65,300 12,743 9,166 12,773
59,300 59,350 11,255 8,116 11,255 62,300 62,350 12,005 8,566 12,005 65,300 65,350 12,755 9,179 12,787
59,350 59,400 11,268 8,124 11,268 62,350 62,400 12,018 8,574 12,018 65,350 65,400 12,768 9,191 12,801
59,400 59,450 11,280 8,131 11,280 62,400 62,450 12,030 8,581 12,030 65,400 65,450 12,780 9,204 12,815
59,450 59,500 11,293 8,139 11,293 62,450 62,500 12,043 8,589 12,043 65,450 65,500 12,793 9,216 12,829
59,500 59,550 11,305 8,146 11,305 62,500 62,550 12,055 8,596 12,055 65,500 65,550 12,805 9,229 12,843
59,550 59,600 11,318 8,154 11,318 62,550 62,600 12,068 8,604 12,068 65,550 65,600 12,818 9,241 12,857
59,600 59,650 11,330 8,161 11,330 62,600 62,650 12,080 8,611 12,080 65,600 65,650 12,830 9,254 12,871
59,650 59,700 11,343 8,169 11,343 62,650 62,700 12,093 8,619 12,093 65,650 65,700 12,843 9,266 12,885
59,700 59,750 11,355 8,176 11,355 62,700 62,750 12,105 8,626 12,105 65,700 65,750 12,855 9,279 12,899
59,750 59,800 11,368 8,184 11,368 62,750 62,800 12,118 8,634 12,118 65,750 65,800 12,868 9,291 12,913
59,800 59,850 11,380 8,191 11,380 62,800 62,850 12,130 8,641 12,130 65,800 65,850 12,880 9,304 12,927
59,850 59,900 11,393 8,199 11,393 62,850 62,900 12,143 8,649 12,143 65,850 65,900 12,893 9,316 12,941
59,900 59,950 11,405 8,206 11,405 62,900 62,950 12,155 8,656 12,155 65,900 65,950 12,905 9,329 12,955
59,950 60,000 11,418 8,214 11,418 62,950 63,000 12,168 8,664 12,168 65,950 66,000 12,918 9,341 12,969
60,000 63,000 66,000
60,000 60,050 11,430 8,221 11,430 63,000 63,050 12,180 8,671 12,180 66,000 66,050 12,930 9,354 12,983
60,050 60,100 11,443 8,229 11,443 63,050 63,100 12,193 8,679 12,193 66,050 66,100 12,943 9,366 12,997
60,100 60,150 11,455 8,236 11,455 63,100 63,150 12,205 8,686 12,205 66,100 66,150 12,955 9,379 13,011
60,150 60,200 11,468 8,244 11,468 63,150 63,200 12,218 8,694 12,218 66,150 66,200 12,968 9,391 13,025
60,200 60,250 11,480 8,251 11,480 63,200 63,250 12,230 8,701 12,230 66,200 66,250 12,980 9,404 13,039
60,250 60,300 11,493 8,259 11,493 63,250 63,300 12,243 8,709 12,243 66,250 66,300 12,993 9,416 13,053
60,300 60,350 11,505 8,266 11,505 63,300 63,350 12,255 8,716 12,255 66,300 66,350 13,005 9,429 13,067
60,350 60,400 11,518 8,274 11,518 63,350 63,400 12,268 8,724 12,268 66,350 66,400 13,018 9,441 13,081
60,400 60,450 11,530 8,281 11,530 63,400 63,450 12,280 8,731 12,280 66,400 66,450 13,030 9,454 13,095
60,450 60,500 11,543 8,289 11,543 63,450 63,500 12,293 8,739 12,293 66,450 66,500 13,043 9,466 13,109
60,500 60,550 11,555 8,296 11,555 63,500 63,550 12,305 8,746 12,305 66,500 66,550 13,055 9,479 13,123
60,550 60,600 11,568 8,304 11,568 63,550 63,600 12,318 8,754 12,318 66,550 66,600 13,068 9,491 13,137
60,600 60,650 11,580 8,311 11,580 63,600 63,650 12,330 8,761 12,330 66,600 66,650 13,080 9,504 13,151
60,650 60,700 11,593 8,319 11,593 63,650 63,700 12,343 8,769 12,343 66,650 66,700 13,093 9,516 13,165
60,700 60,750 11,605 8,326 11,605 63,700 63,750 12,355 8,779 12,355 66,700 66,750 13,105 9,529 13,179
60,750 60,800 11,618 8,334 11,618 63,750 63,800 12,368 8,791 12,368 66,750 66,800 13,118 9,541 13,193
60,800 60,850 11,630 8,341 11,630 63,800 63,850 12,380 8,804 12,380 66,800 66,850 13,130 9,554 13,207
60,850 60,900 11,643 8,349 11,643 63,850 63,900 12,393 8,816 12,393 66,850 66,900 13,143 9,566 13,221
60,900 60,950 11,655 8,356 11,655 63,900 63,950 12,405 8,829 12,405 66,900 66,950 13,155 9,579 13,235
60,950 61,000 11,668 8,364 11,668 63,950 64,000 12,418 8,841 12,418 66,950 67,000 13,168 9,591 13,249
61,000 64,000 67,000
61,000 61,050 11,680 8,371 11,680 64,000 64,050 12,430 8,854 12,430 67,000 67,050 13,180 9,604 13,263
61,050 61,100 11,693 8,379 11,693 64,050 64,100 12,443 8,866 12,443 67,050 67,100 13,193 9,616 13,277
61,100 61,150 11,705 8,386 11,705 64,100 64,150 12,455 8,879 12,455 67,100 67,150 13,205 9,629 13,291
61,150 61,200 11,718 8,394 11,718 64,150 64,200 12,468 8,891 12,468 67,150 67,200 13,218 9,641 13,305
61,200 61,250 11,730 8,401 11,730 64,200 64,250 12,480 8,904 12,480 67,200 67,250 13,230 9,654 13,319
61,250 61,300 11,743 8,409 11,743 64,250 64,300 12,493 8,916 12,493 67,250 67,300 13,243 9,666 13,333
61,300 61,350 11,755 8,416 11,755 64,300 64,350 12,505 8,929 12,507 67,300 67,350 13,255 9,679 13,347
61,350 61,400 11,768 8,424 11,768 64,350 64,400 12,518 8,941 12,521 67,350 67,400 13,268 9,691 13,361
61,400 61,450 11,780 8,431 11,780 64,400 64,450 12,530 8,954 12,535 67,400 67,450 13,280 9,704 13,375
61,450 61,500 11,793 8,439 11,793 64,450 64,500 12,543 8,966 12,549 67,450 67,500 13,293 9,716 13,389
61,500 61,550 11,805 8,446 11,805 64,500 64,550 12,555 8,979 12,563 67,500 67,550 13,305 9,729 13,403
61,550 61,600 11,818 8,454 11,818 64,550 64,600 12,568 8,991 12,577 67,550 67,600 13,318 9,741 13,417
61,600 61,650 11,830 8,461 11,830 64,600 64,650 12,580 9,004 12,591 67,600 67,650 13,330 9,754 13,431
61,650 61,700 11,843 8,469 11,843 64,650 64,700 12,593 9,016 12,605 67,650 67,700 13,343 9,766 13,445
61,700 61,750 11,855 8,476 11,855 64,700 64,750 12,605 9,029 12,619 67,700 67,750 13,355 9,779 13,459
61,750 61,800 11,868 8,484 11,868 64,750 64,800 12,618 9,041 12,633 67,750 67,800 13,368 9,791 13,473
61,800 61,850 11,880 8,491 11,880 64,800 64,850 12,630 9,054 12,647 67,800 67,850 13,380 9,804 13,487
61,850 61,900 11,893 8,499 11,893 64,850 64,900 12,643 9,066 12,661 67,850 67,900 13,393 9,816 13,501
61,900 61,950 11,905 8,506 11,905 64,900 64,950 12,655 9,079 12,675 67,900 67,950 13,405 9,829 13,515
61,950 62,000 11,918 8,514 11,918 64,950 65,000 12,668 9,091 12,689 67,950 68,000 13,418 9,841 13,529
(Continued on page 42)
Instructions for Form 1040NR - 41 -Page 42 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
68,000 71,000 74,000
68,000 68,050 13,430 9,854 13,543 71,000 71,050 14,180 10,604 14,383 74,000 74,050 14,930 11,354 15,223
68,050 68,100 13,443 9,866 13,557 71,050 71,100 14,193 10,616 14,397 74,050 74,100 14,943 11,366 15,237
68,100 68,150 13,455 9,879 13,571 71,100 71,150 14,205 10,629 14,411 74,100 74,150 14,955 11,379 15,251
68,150 68,200 13,468 9,891 13,585 71,150 71,200 14,218 10,641 14,425 74,150 74,200 14,968 11,391 15,265
68,200 68,250 13,480 9,904 13,599 71,200 71,250 14,230 10,654 14,439 74,200 74,250 14,980 11,404 15,279
68,250 68,300 13,493 9,916 13,613 71,250 71,300 14,243 10,666 14,453 74,250 74,300 14,993 11,416 15,293
68,300 68,350 13,505 9,929 13,627 71,300 71,350 14,255 10,679 14,467 74,300 74,350 15,005 11,429 15,307
68,350 68,400 13,518 9,941 13,641 71,350 71,400 14,268 10,691 14,481 74,350 74,400 15,018 11,441 15,321
68,400 68,450 13,530 9,954 13,655 71,400 71,450 14,280 10,704 14,495 74,400 74,450 15,030 11,454 15,335
68,450 68,500 13,543 9,966 13,669 71,450 71,500 14,293 10,716 14,509 74,450 74,500 15,043 11,466 15,349
68,500 68,550 13,555 9,979 13,683 71,500 71,550 14,305 10,729 14,523 74,500 74,550 15,055 11,479 15,363
68,550 68,600 13,568 9,991 13,697 71,550 71,600 14,318 10,741 14,537 74,550 74,600 15,068 11,491 15,377
68,600 68,650 13,580 10,004 13,711 71,600 71,650 14,330 10,754 14,551 74,600 74,650 15,080 11,504 15,391
68,650 68,700 13,593 10,016 13,725 71,650 71,700 14,343 10,766 14,565 74,650 74,700 15,093 11,516 15,405
68,700 68,750 13,605 10,029 13,739 71,700 71,750 14,355 10,779 14,579 74,700 74,750 15,105 11,529 15,419
68,750 68,800 13,618 10,041 13,753 71,750 71,800 14,368 10,791 14,593 74,750 74,800 15,118 11,541 15,433
68,800 68,850 13,630 10,054 13,767 71,800 71,850 14,380 10,804 14,607 74,800 74,850 15,130 11,554 15,447
68,850 68,900 13,643 10,066 13,781 71,850 71,900 14,393 10,816 14,621 74,850 74,900 15,143 11,566 15,461
68,900 68,950 13,655 10,079 13,795 71,900 71,950 14,405 10,829 14,635 74,900 74,950 15,155 11,579 15,475
68,950 69,000 13,668 10,091 13,809 71,950 72,000 14,418 10,841 14,649 74,950 75,000 15,168 11,591 15,489
69,000 72,000 75,000
69,000 69,050 13,680 10,104 13,823 72,000 72,050 14,430 10,854 14,663 75,000 75,050 15,180 11,604 15,503
69,050 69,100 13,693 10,116 13,837 72,050 72,100 14,443 10,866 14,677 75,050 75,100 15,193 11,616 15,517
69,100 69,150 13,705 10,129 13,851 72,100 72,150 14,455 10,879 14,691 75,100 75,150 15,205 11,629 15,531
69,150 69,200 13,718 10,141 13,865 72,150 72,200 14,468 10,891 14,705 75,150 75,200 15,218 11,641 15,545
69,200 69,250 13,730 10,154 13,879 72,200 72,250 14,480 10,904 14,719 75,200 75,250 15,230 11,654 15,559
69,250 69,300 13,743 10,166 13,893 72,250 72,300 14,493 10,916 14,733 75,250 75,300 15,243 11,666 15,573
69,300 69,350 13,755 10,179 13,907 72,300 72,350 14,505 10,929 14,747 75,300 75,350 15,255 11,679 15,587
69,350 69,400 13,768 10,191 13,921 72,350 72,400 14,518 10,941 14,761 75,350 75,400 15,268 11,691 15,601
69,400 69,450 13,780 10,204 13,935 72,400 72,450 14,530 10,954 14,775 75,400 75,450 15,280 11,704 15,615
69,450 69,500 13,793 10,216 13,949 72,450 72,500 14,543 10,966 14,789 75,450 75,500 15,293 11,716 15,629
69,500 69,550 13,805 10,229 13,963 72,500 72,550 14,555 10,979 14,803 75,500 75,550 15,305 11,729 15,643
69,550 69,600 13,818 10,241 13,977 72,550 72,600 14,568 10,991 14,817 75,550 75,600 15,318 11,741 15,657
69,600 69,650 13,830 10,254 13,991 72,600 72,650 14,580 11,004 14,831 75,600 75,650 15,330 11,754 15,671
69,650 69,700 13,843 10,266 14,005 72,650 72,700 14,593 11,016 14,845 75,650 75,700 15,343 11,766 15,685
69,700 69,750 13,855 10,279 14,019 72,700 72,750 14,605 11,029 14,859 75,700 75,750 15,355 11,779 15,699
69,750 69,800 13,868 10,291 14,033 72,750 72,800 14,618 11,041 14,873 75,750 75,800 15,368 11,791 15,713
69,800 69,850 13,880 10,304 14,047 72,800 72,850 14,630 11,054 14,887 75,800 75,850 15,380 11,804 15,727
69,850 69,900 13,893 10,316 14,061 72,850 72,900 14,643 11,066 14,901 75,850 75,900 15,393 11,816 15,741
69,900 69,950 13,905 10,329 14,075 72,900 72,950 14,655 11,079 14,915 75,900 75,950 15,405 11,829 15,755
69,950 70,000 13,918 10,341 14,089 72,950 73,000 14,668 11,091 14,929 75,950 76,000 15,418 11,841 15,769
70,000 73,000 76,000
70,000 70,050 13,930 10,354 14,103 73,000 73,050 14,680 11,104 14,943 76,000 76,050 15,430 11,854 15,783
70,050 70,100 13,943 10,366 14,117 73,050 73,100 14,693 11,116 14,957 76,050 76,100 15,443 11,866 15,797
70,100 70,150 13,955 10,379 14,131 73,100 73,150 14,705 11,129 14,971 76,100 76,150 15,455 11,879 15,811
70,150 70,200 13,968 10,391 14,145 73,150 73,200 14,718 11,141 14,985 76,150 76,200 15,468 11,891 15,825
70,200 70,250 13,980 10,404 14,159 73,200 73,250 14,730 11,154 14,999 76,200 76,250 15,480 11,904 15,839
70,250 70,300 13,993 10,416 14,173 73,250 73,300 14,743 11,166 15,013 76,250 76,300 15,493 11,916 15,853
70,300 70,350 14,005 10,429 14,187 73,300 73,350 14,755 11,179 15,027 76,300 76,350 15,505 11,929 15,867
70,350 70,400 14,018 10,441 14,201 73,350 73,400 14,768 11,191 15,041 76,350 76,400 15,518 11,941 15,881
70,400 70,450 14,030 10,454 14,215 73,400 73,450 14,780 11,204 15,055 76,400 76,450 15,530 11,954 15,895
70,450 70,500 14,043 10,466 14,229 73,450 73,500 14,793 11,216 15,069 76,450 76,500 15,543 11,966 15,909
70,500 70,550 14,055 10,479 14,243 73,500 73,550 14,805 11,229 15,083 76,500 76,550 15,555 11,979 15,923
70,550 70,600 14,068 10,491 14,257 73,550 73,600 14,818 11,241 15,097 76,550 76,600 15,568 11,991 15,937
70,600 70,650 14,080 10,504 14,271 73,600 73,650 14,830 11,254 15,111 76,600 76,650 15,580 12,004 15,951
70,650 70,700 14,093 10,516 14,285 73,650 73,700 14,843 11,266 15,125 76,650 76,700 15,593 12,016 15,965
70,700 70,750 14,105 10,529 14,299 73,700 73,750 14,855 11,279 15,139 76,700 76,750 15,605 12,029 15,979
70,750 70,800 14,118 10,541 14,313 73,750 73,800 14,868 11,291 15,153 76,750 76,800 15,618 12,041 15,993
70,800 70,850 14,130 10,554 14,327 73,800 73,850 14,880 11,304 15,167 76,800 76,850 15,630 12,054 16,007
70,850 70,900 14,143 10,566 14,341 73,850 73,900 14,893 11,316 15,181 76,850 76,900 15,643 12,066 16,021
70,900 70,950 14,155 10,579 14,355 73,900 73,950 14,905 11,329 15,195 76,900 76,950 15,655 12,079 16,035
70,950 71,000 14,168 10,591 14,369 73,950 74,000 14,918 11,341 15,209 76,950 77,000 15,668 12,091 16,049
(Continued on page 43)
- 42 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 43 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
77,000 80,000 83,000
77,000 77,050 15,680 12,104 16,063 80,000 80,050 16,518 12,854 16,903 83,000 83,050 17,358 13,604 17,743
77,050 77,100 15,693 12,116 16,077 80,050 80,100 16,532 12,866 16,917 83,050 83,100 17,372 13,616 17,757
77,100 77,150 15,706 12,129 16,091 80,100 80,150 16,546 12,879 16,931 83,100 83,150 17,386 13,629 17,771
77,150 77,200 15,720 12,141 16,105 80,150 80,200 16,560 12,891 16,945 83,150 83,200 17,400 13,641 17,785
77,200 77,250 15,734 12,154 16,119 80,200 80,250 16,574 12,904 16,959 83,200 83,250 17,414 13,654 17,799
77,250 77,300 15,748 12,166 16,133 80,250 80,300 16,588 12,916 16,973 83,250 83,300 17,428 13,666 17,813
77,300 77,350 15,762 12,179 16,147 80,300 80,350 16,602 12,929 16,987 83,300 83,350 17,442 13,679 17,827
77,350 77,400 15,776 12,191 16,161 80,350 80,400 16,616 12,941 17,001 83,350 83,400 17,456 13,691 17,841
77,400 77,450 15,790 12,204 16,175 80,400 80,450 16,630 12,954 17,015 83,400 83,450 17,470 13,704 17,855
77,450 77,500 15,804 12,216 16,189 80,450 80,500 16,644 12,966 17,029 83,450 83,500 17,484 13,716 17,869
77,500 77,550 15,818 12,229 16,203 80,500 80,550 16,658 12,979 17,043 83,500 83,550 17,498 13,729 17,883
77,550 77,600 15,832 12,241 16,217 80,550 80,600 16,672 12,991 17,057 83,550 83,600 17,512 13,741 17,897
77,600 77,650 15,846 12,254 16,231 80,600 80,650 16,686 13,004 17,071 83,600 83,650 17,526 13,754 17,911
77,650 77,700 15,860 12,266 16,245 80,650 80,700 16,700 13,016 17,085 83,650 83,700 17,540 13,766 17,925
77,700 77,750 15,874 12,279 16,259 80,700 80,750 16,714 13,029 17,099 83,700 83,750 17,554 13,779 17,939
77,750 77,800 15,888 12,291 16,273 80,750 80,800 16,728 13,041 17,113 83,750 83,800 17,568 13,791 17,953
77,800 77,850 15,902 12,304 16,287 80,800 80,850 16,742 13,054 17,127 83,800 83,850 17,582 13,804 17,967
77,850 77,900 15,916 12,316 16,301 80,850 80,900 16,756 13,066 17,141 83,850 83,900 17,596 13,816 17,981
77,900 77,950 15,930 12,329 16,315 80,900 80,950 16,770 13,079 17,155 83,900 83,950 17,610 13,829 17,995
77,950 78,000 15,944 12,341 16,329 80,950 81,000 16,784 13,091 17,169 83,950 84,000 17,624 13,841 18,009
78,000 81,000 84,000
78,000 78,050 15,958 12,354 16,343 81,000 81,050 16,798 13,104 17,183 84,000 84,050 17,638 13,854 18,023
78,050 78,100 15,972 12,366 16,357 81,050 81,100 16,812 13,116 17,197 84,050 84,100 17,652 13,866 18,037
78,100 78,150 15,986 12,379 16,371 81,100 81,150 16,826 13,129 17,211 84,100 84,150 17,666 13,879 18,051
78,150 78,200 16,000 12,391 16,385 81,150 81,200 16,840 13,141 17,225 84,150 84,200 17,680 13,891 18,065
78,200 78,250 16,014 12,404 16,399 81,200 81,250 16,854 13,154 17,239 84,200 84,250 17,694 13,904 18,079
78,250 78,300 16,028 12,416 16,413 81,250 81,300 16,868 13,166 17,253 84,250 84,300 17,708 13,916 18,093
78,300 78,350 16,042 12,429 16,427 81,300 81,350 16,882 13,179 17,267 84,300 84,350 17,722 13,929 18,107
78,350 78,400 16,056 12,441 16,441 81,350 81,400 16,896 13,191 17,281 84,350 84,400 17,736 13,941 18,121
78,400 78,450 16,070 12,454 16,455 81,400 81,450 16,910 13,204 17,295 84,400 84,450 17,750 13,954 18,135
78,450 78,500 16,084 12,466 16,469 81,450 81,500 16,924 13,216 17,309 84,450 84,500 17,764 13,966 18,149
78,500 78,550 16,098 12,479 16,483 81,500 81,550 16,938 13,229 17,323 84,500 84,550 17,778 13,979 18,163
78,550 78,600 16,112 12,491 16,497 81,550 81,600 16,952 13,241 17,337 84,550 84,600 17,792 13,991 18,177
78,600 78,650 16,126 12,504 16,511 81,600 81,650 16,966 13,254 17,351 84,600 84,650 17,806 14,004 18,191
78,650 78,700 16,140 12,516 16,525 81,650 81,700 16,980 13,266 17,365 84,650 84,700 17,820 14,016 18,205
78,700 78,750 16,154 12,529 16,539 81,700 81,750 16,994 13,279 17,379 84,700 84,750 17,834 14,029 18,219
78,750 78,800 16,168 12,541 16,553 81,750 81,800 17,008 13,291 17,393 84,750 84,800 17,848 14,041 18,233
78,800 78,850 16,182 12,554 16,567 81,800 81,850 17,022 13,304 17,407 84,800 84,850 17,862 14,054 18,247
78,850 78,900 16,196 12,566 16,581 81,850 81,900 17,036 13,316 17,421 84,850 84,900 17,876 14,066 18,261
78,900 78,950 16,210 12,579 16,595 81,900 81,950 17,050 13,329 17,435 84,900 84,950 17,890 14,079 18,275
78,950 79,000 16,224 12,591 16,609 81,950 82,000 17,064 13,341 17,449 84,950 85,000 17,904 14,091 18,289
79,000 82,000 85,000
79,000 79,050 16,238 12,604 16,623 82,000 82,050 17,078 13,354 17,463 85,000 85,050 17,918 14,104 18,303
79,050 79,100 16,252 12,616 16,637 82,050 82,100 17,092 13,366 17,477 85,050 85,100 17,932 14,116 18,317
79,100 79,150 16,266 12,629 16,651 82,100 82,150 17,106 13,379 17,491 85,100 85,150 17,946 14,129 18,331
79,150 79,200 16,280 12,641 16,665 82,150 82,200 17,120 13,391 17,505 85,150 85,200 17,960 14,141 18,345
79,200 79,250 16,294 12,654 16,679 82,200 82,250 17,134 13,404 17,519 85,200 85,250 17,974 14,154 18,359
79,250 79,300 16,308 12,666 16,693 82,250 82,300 17,148 13,416 17,533 85,250 85,300 17,988 14,166 18,373
79,300 79,350 16,322 12,679 16,707 82,300 82,350 17,162 13,429 17,547 85,300 85,350 18,002 14,179 18,387
79,350 79,400 16,336 12,691 16,721 82,350 82,400 17,176 13,441 17,561 85,350 85,400 18,016 14,191 18,401
79,400 79,450 16,350 12,704 16,735 82,400 82,450 17,190 13,454 17,575 85,400 85,450 18,030 14,204 18,415
79,450 79,500 16,364 12,716 16,749 82,450 82,500 17,204 13,466 17,589 85,450 85,500 18,044 14,216 18,429
79,500 79,550 16,378 12,729 16,763 82,500 82,550 17,218 13,479 17,603 85,500 85,550 18,058 14,229 18,443
79,550 79,600 16,392 12,741 16,777 82,550 82,600 17,232 13,491 17,617 85,550 85,600 18,072 14,241 18,457
79,600 79,650 16,406 12,754 16,791 82,600 82,650 17,246 13,504 17,631 85,600 85,650 18,086 14,254 18,471
79,650 79,700 16,420 12,766 16,805 82,650 82,700 17,260 13,516 17,645 85,650 85,700 18,100 14,266 18,485
79,700 79,750 16,434 12,779 16,819 82,700 82,750 17,274 13,529 17,659 85,700 85,750 18,114 14,279 18,499
79,750 79,800 16,448 12,791 16,833 82,750 82,800 17,288 13,541 17,673 85,750 85,800 18,128 14,291 18,513
79,800 79,850 16,462 12,804 16,847 82,800 82,850 17,302 13,554 17,687 85,800 85,850 18,142 14,304 18,527
79,850 79,900 16,476 12,816 16,861 82,850 82,900 17,316 13,566 17,701 85,850 85,900 18,156 14,316 18,541
79,900 79,950 16,490 12,829 16,875 82,900 82,950 17,330 13,579 17,715 85,900 85,950 18,170 14,329 18,555
79,950 80,000 16,504 12,841 16,889 82,950 83,000 17,344 13,591 17,729 85,950 86,000 18,184 14,341 18,569
(Continued on page 44)
Instructions for Form 1040NR - 43 -Page 44 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—
86,000 89,000 92,000
86,000 86,050 18,198 14,354 18,583 89,000 89,050 19,038 15,104 19,423 92,000 92,050 19,878 15,854 20,263
86,050 86,100 18,212 14,366 18,597 89,050 89,100 19,052 15,116 19,437 92,050 92,100 19,892 15,866 20,277
86,100 86,150 18,226 14,379 18,611 89,100 89,150 19,066 15,129 19,451 92,100 92,150 19,906 15,879 20,291
86,150 86,200 18,240 14,391 18,625 89,150 89,200 19,080 15,141 19,465 92,150 92,200 19,920 15,891 20,305
86,200 86,250 18,254 14,404 18,639 89,200 89,250 19,094 15,154 19,479 92,200 92,250 19,934 15,904 20,319
86,250 86,300 18,268 14,416 18,653 89,250 89,300 19,108 15,166 19,493 92,250 92,300 19,948 15,916 20,333
86,300 86,350 18,282 14,429 18,667 89,300 89,350 19,122 15,179 19,507 92,300 92,350 19,962 15,929 20,347
86,350 86,400 18,296 14,441 18,681 89,350 89,400 19,136 15,191 19,521 92,350 92,400 19,976 15,941 20,361
86,400 86,450 18,310 14,454 18,695 89,400 89,450 19,150 15,204 19,535 92,400 92,450 19,990 15,954 20,375
86,450 86,500 18,324 14,466 18,709 89,450 89,500 19,164 15,216 19,549 92,450 92,500 20,004 15,966 20,389
86,500 86,550 18,338 14,479 18,723 89,500 89,550 19,178 15,229 19,563 92,500 92,550 20,018 15,979 20,403
86,550 86,600 18,352 14,491 18,737 89,550 89,600 19,192 15,241 19,577 92,550 92,600 20,032 15,991 20,417
86,600 86,650 18,366 14,504 18,751 89,600 89,650 19,206 15,254 19,591 92,600 92,650 20,046 16,004 20,431
86,650 86,700 18,380 14,516 18,765 89,650 89,700 19,220 15,266 19,605 92,650 92,700 20,060 16,016 20,445
86,700 86,750 18,394 14,529 18,779 89,700 89,750 19,234 15,279 19,619 92,700 92,750 20,074 16,029 20,459
86,750 86,800 18,408 14,541 18,793 89,750 89,800 19,248 15,291 19,633 92,750 92,800 20,088 16,041 20,473
86,800 86,850 18,422 14,554 18,807 89,800 89,850 19,262 15,304 19,647 92,800 92,850 20,102 16,054 20,487
86,850 86,900 18,436 14,566 18,821 89,850 89,900 19,276 15,316 19,661 92,850 92,900 20,116 16,066 20,501
86,900 86,950 18,450 14,579 18,835 89,900 89,950 19,290 15,329 19,675 92,900 92,950 20,130 16,079 20,515
86,950 87,000 18,464 14,591 18,849 89,950 90,000 19,304 15,341 19,689 92,950 93,000 20,144 16,091 20,529
87,000 90,000 93,000
87,000 87,050 18,478 14,604 18,863 90,000 90,050 19,318 15,354 19,703 93,000 93,050 20,158 16,104 20,543
87,050 87,100 18,492 14,616 18,877 90,050 90,100 19,332 15,366 19,717 93,050 93,100 20,172 16,116 20,557
87,100 87,150 18,506 14,629 18,891 90,100 90,150 19,346 15,379 19,731 93,100 93,150 20,186 16,129 20,571
87,150 87,200 18,520 14,641 18,905 90,150 90,200 19,360 15,391 19,745 93,150 93,200 20,200 16,141 20,585
87,200 87,250 18,534 14,654 18,919 90,200 90,250 19,374 15,404 19,759 93,200 93,250 20,214 16,154 20,599
87,250 87,300 18,548 14,666 18,933 90,250 90,300 19,388 15,416 19,773 93,250 93,300 20,228 16,166 20,613
87,300 87,350 18,562 14,679 18,947 90,300 90,350 19,402 15,429 19,787 93,300 93,350 20,242 16,179 20,627
87,350 87,400 18,576 14,691 18,961 90,350 90,400 19,416 15,441 19,801 93,350 93,400 20,256 16,191 20,641
87,400 87,450 18,590 14,704 18,975 90,400 90,450 19,430 15,454 19,815 93,400 93,450 20,270 16,204 20,655
87,450 87,500 18,604 14,716 18,989 90,450 90,500 19,444 15,466 19,829 93,450 93,500 20,284 16,216 20,669
87,500 87,550 18,618 14,729 19,003 90,500 90,550 19,458 15,479 19,843 93,500 93,550 20,298 16,229 20,683
87,550 87,600 18,632 14,741 19,017 90,550 90,600 19,472 15,491 19,857 93,550 93,600 20,312 16,241 20,697
87,600 87,650 18,646 14,754 19,031 90,600 90,650 19,486 15,504 19,871 93,600 93,650 20,326 16,254 20,711
87,650 87,700 18,660 14,766 19,045 90,650 90,700 19,500 15,516 19,885 93,650 93,700 20,340 16,266 20,725
87,700 87,750 18,674 14,779 19,059 90,700 90,750 19,514 15,529 19,899 93,700 93,750 20,354 16,279 20,739
87,750 87,800 18,688 14,791 19,073 90,750 90,800 19,528 15,541 19,913 93,750 93,800 20,368 16,291 20,753
87,800 87,850 18,702 14,804 19,087 90,800 90,850 19,542 15,554 19,927 93,800 93,850 20,382 16,304 20,767
87,850 87,900 18,716 14,816 19,101 90,850 90,900 19,556 15,566 19,941 93,850 93,900 20,396 16,316 20,781
87,900 87,950 18,730 14,829 19,115 90,900 90,950 19,570 15,579 19,955 93,900 93,950 20,410 16,329 20,795
87,950 88,000 18,744 14,841 19,129 90,950 91,000 19,584 15,591 19,969 93,950 94,000 20,424 16,341 20,809
88,000 91,000 94,000
88,000 88,050 18,758 14,854 19,143 91,000 91,050 19,598 15,604 19,983 94,000 94,050 20,438 16,354 20,823
88,050 88,100 18,772 14,866 19,157 91,050 91,100 19,612 15,616 19,997 94,050 94,100 20,452 16,366 20,837
88,100 88,150 18,786 14,879 19,171 91,100 91,150 19,626 15,629 20,011 94,100 94,150 20,466 16,379 20,851
88,150 88,200 18,800 14,891 19,185 91,150 91,200 19,640 15,641 20,025 94,150 94,200 20,480 16,391 20,865
88,200 88,250 18,814 14,904 19,199 91,200 91,250 19,654 15,654 20,039 94,200 94,250 20,494 16,404 20,879
88,250 88,300 18,828 14,916 19,213 91,250 91,300 19,668 15,666 20,053 94,250 94,300 20,508 16,416 20,893
88,300 88,350 18,842 14,929 19,227 91,300 91,350 19,682 15,679 20,067 94,300 94,350 20,522 16,429 20,907
88,350 88,400 18,856 14,941 19,241 91,350 91,400 19,696 15,691 20,081 94,350 94,400 20,536 16,441 20,921
88,400 88,450 18,870 14,954 19,255 91,400 91,450 19,710 15,704 20,095 94,400 94,450 20,550 16,454 20,935
88,450 88,500 18,884 14,966 19,269 91,450 91,500 19,724 15,716 20,109 94,450 94,500 20,564 16,466 20,949
88,500 88,550 18,898 14,979 19,283 91,500 91,550 19,738 15,729 20,123 94,500 94,550 20,578 16,479 20,963
88,550 88,600 18,912 14,991 19,297 91,550 91,600 19,752 15,741 20,137 94,550 94,600 20,592 16,491 20,977
88,600 88,650 18,926 15,004 19,311 91,600 91,650 19,766 15,754 20,151 94,600 94,650 20,606 16,504 20,991
88,650 88,700 18,940 15,016 19,325 91,650 91,700 19,780 15,766 20,165 94,650 94,700 20,620 16,516 21,005
88,700 88,750 18,954 15,029 19,339 91,700 91,750 19,794 15,779 20,179 94,700 94,750 20,634 16,529 21,019
88,750 88,800 18,968 15,041 19,353 91,750 91,800 19,808 15,791 20,193 94,750 94,800 20,648 16,541 21,033
88,800 88,850 18,982 15,054 19,367 91,800 91,850 19,822 15,804 20,207 94,800 94,850 20,662 16,554 21,047
88,850 88,900 18,996 15,066 19,381 91,850 91,900 19,836 15,816 20,221 94,850 94,900 20,676 16,566 21,061
88,900 88,950 19,010 15,079 19,395 91,900 91,950 19,850 15,829 20,235 94,900 94,950 20,690 16,579 21,075
88,950 89,000 19,024 15,091 19,409 91,950 92,000 19,864 15,841 20,249 94,950 95,000 20,704 16,591 21,089
(Continued on page 45)
- 44 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 45 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is—
At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately
Your tax is— Your tax is—
95,000 98,000
95,000 95,050 20,718 16,604 21,103 98,000 98,050 21,558 17,354 21,948
95,050 95,100 20,732 16,616 21,117 98,050 98,100 21,572 17,366 21,965
95,100 95,150 20,746 16,629 21,131 98,100 98,150 21,586 17,379 21,981
95,150 95,200 20,760 16,641 21,145 98,150 98,200 21,600 17,391 21,998
95,200 95,250 20,774 16,654 21,159 98,200 98,250 21,614 17,404 22,014
95,250 95,300 20,788 16,666 21,173 98,250 98,300 21,628 17,416 22,031
95,300 95,350 20,802 16,679 21,187 98,300 98,350 21,642 17,429 22,047
95,350 95,400 20,816 16,691 21,201 98,350 98,400 21,656 17,441 22,064
95,400 95,450 20,830 16,704 21,215 98,400 98,450 21,670 17,454 22,080
95,450 95,500 20,844 16,716 21,229 98,450 98,500 21,684 17,466 22,097
95,500 95,550 20,858 16,729 21,243 98,500 98,550 21,698 17,479 22,113
95,550 95,600 20,872 16,741 21,257 98,550 98,600 21,712 17,491 22,130
95,600 95,650 20,886 16,754 21,271 98,600 98,650 21,726 17,504 22,146
95,650 95,700 20,900 16,766 21,285 98,650 98,700 21,740 17,516 22,163
95,700 95,750 20,914 16,779 21,299 98,700 98,750 21,754 17,529 22,179
95,750 95,800 20,928 16,791 21,313 98,750 98,800 21,768 17,541 22,196
95,800 95,850 20,942 16,804 21,327 98,800 98,850 21,782 17,554 22,212
95,850 95,900 20,956 16,816 21,341 98,850 98,900 21,796 17,566 22,229
95,900 95,950 20,970 16,829 21,355 98,900 98,950 21,810 17,579 22,245
95,950 96,000 20,984 16,841 21,369 98,950 99,000 21,824 17,591 22,262
96,000 99,000
96,000 96,050 20,998 16,854 21,383 99,000 99,050 21,838 17,604 22,278
96,050 96,100 21,012 16,866 21,397 99,050 99,100 21,852 17,616 22,295
96,100 96,150 21,026 16,879 21,411 99,100 99,150 21,866 17,629 22,311
96,150 96,200 21,040 16,891 21,425 99,150 99,200 21,880 17,641 22,328
96,200 96,250 21,054 16,904 21,439 99,200 99,250 21,894 17,654 22,344
96,250 96,300 21,068 16,916 21,453 99,250 99,300 21,908 17,666 22,361
96,300 96,350 21,082 16,929 21,467 99,300 99,350 21,922 17,679 22,377
96,350 96,400 21,096 16,941 21,481 99,350 99,400 21,936 17,691 22,394
96,400 96,450 21,110 16,954 21,495 99,400 99,450 21,950 17,704 22,410
96,450 96,500 21,124 16,966 21,509 99,450 99,500 21,964 17,716 22,427
96,500 96,550 21,138 16,979 21,523 99,500 99,550 21,978 17,729 22,443
96,550 96,600 21,152 16,991 21,537 99,550 99,600 21,992 17,741 22,460
96,600 96,650 21,166 17,004 21,551 99,600 99,650 22,006 17,754 22,476
96,650 96,700 21,180 17,016 21,565 99,650 99,700 22,020 17,766 22,493
96,700 96,750 21,194 17,029 21,579 99,700 99,750 22,034 17,779 22,509
96,750 96,800 21,208 17,041 21,593 99,750 99,800 22,048 17,791 22,526
96,800 96,850 21,222 17,054 21,607 99,800 99,850 22,062 17,804 22,542
96,850 96,900 21,236 17,066 21,621 99,850 99,900 22,076 17,816 22,559
96,900 96,950 21,250 17,079 21,635 99,900 99,950 22,090 17,829 22,575
96,950 97,000 21,264 17,091 21,649 99,950 100,000 22,104 17,841 22,592
97,000
97,000 97,050 21,278 17,104 21,663
97,050 97,100 21,292 17,116 21,677
97,100 97,150 21,306 17,129 21,691
97,150 97,200 21,320 17,141 21,705
97,200 97,250 21,334 17,154 21,719
97,250 97,300 21,348 17,166 21,733
97,300 97,350 21,362 17,179 21,747 $100,000
97,350 97,400 21,376 17,191 21,761 or over —
97,400 97,450 21,390 17,204 21,775 use the Tax
97,450 97,500 21,404 17,216 21,789 Computation
Worksheet
97,500 97,550 21,418 17,229 21,803
on page 46
97,550 97,600 21,432 17,241 21,817
97,600 97,650 21,446 17,254 21,831
97,650 97,700 21,460 17,266 21,845
97,700 97,750 21,474 17,279 21,859
97,750 97,800 21,488 17,291 21,873
97,800 97,850 21,502 17,304 21,887
97,850 97,900 21,516 17,316 21,901
97,900 97,950 21,530 17,329 21,915
97,950 98,000 21,544 17,341 21,932
Instructions for Form 1040NR - 45 -Page 46 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Computation Worksheet—Line 41
 See the instructions for line 41 that begin on page 18 to see if you must use the worksheet below to figure your tax.
!
CAUTION
Section A — Use if you checked filing status box 1 or 2 for Single. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income. (a) (b) (c) (d) Tax.
If line 40 is: Enter the amount from Multiplication Multiply Subtraction Subtract (d) from (c).
line 40 amount (a) by (b) amount Enter the result here
and on
Form 1040NR, line 41
At least $100,000 but not over
$160,850 $ × 28% (.28) $ $ 5,889.25 $
Over $160,850 but not over
$349,700 $ × 33% (.33) $ $ 13,931.75 $
Over $349,700 $ × 35% (.35) $ $ 20,925.75 $
Section B — Use if you checked filing status box 6 for Qualifying widow(er). Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income. (a) (b) (c) (d) Tax.
If line 40 is: Enter the amount from Multiplication Multiply Subtraction Subtract (d) from (c).
line 40 amount (a) by (b) amount Enter the result here
and on
Form 1040NR, line 41
At least $100,000 but not over
$128,500 $ × 25% (.25) $ $ 7,152.50 $
Over $128,500 but not over
$195,850 $ × 28% (.28) $ $ 11,007.50 $
Over $195,850 but not over
$349,700 $ × 33% (.33) $ $ 20,800.00 $
Over $349,700 $ × 35% (.35) $ $ 27,794.00 $
Section C — Use if you checked filing status box 3, 4, or 5 for Married filing separately. Complete the row below that
applies to you.
Taxable income (a) (b) (c) (d) Tax.
If line 40 is: Enter the amount from Multiplication Multiply Subtraction Subtract (d) from (c).
line 40 amount (a) by (b) amount Enter the result here
and on
Form 1040NR, line 41
At least $100,000 but not
over $174,850 $ × 33% (.33) $ $ 10,400.00 $
Over $174,850 $ × 35% (.35) $ $ 13,897.00 $
-46- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 47 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
2007 Tax Rate Schedules
Estates or Trusts. Use Schedule W below to compute your tax.
Individuals. If your taxable income is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation Worksheet on page 46 to compute
! your tax. The Tax Rate Schedules are shown so you can see that tax rate that applies to all levels of taxable income
but should not be used to figure your tax.
CAUTION
Schedule W Schedule X
Estates or Trusts Single Taxpayers— If you checked Filing Status
Use this schedule for a nonresident alien estate or trust— Box 1 or 2 on Form 1040NR
If the amount Enter on Form If taxable The tax is:
of Form 1040NR, line 41 income is:
1040NR, line
40, is:
of the of the
But not amount But not amount
Over — over — over — Over — over — over —
$0 $7,825 10% $0
$0 $2,150 15% $0 7,825 31,850 $782.50 + 15% 7,825
2,150 5,000 $322.50 + 25% 2,150 31,850 77,100 4,386.25 + 25% 31,850
5,000 7,650 1,035.00 + 28% 5,000 77,100 160,850 15,698.75 + 28% 77,100
7,650 10,450 1,777.00 + 33% 7,650 160,850 349,700 39,148.75 + 33% 160,850
10,450 2,701.00 + 35% 10,450 349,700 101,469.25 + 35% 349,700
Schedule Y Schedule Z
Married Filing Separate Returns— If you checked Qualifying Widows and Widowers— If you
Filing Status Box 3, 4, or 5 on Form 1040NR checked Filing Status Box 6 on Form 1040NR
If taxable The tax is: If taxable The tax is:
income is: income is:
of the of the
But not amount But not amount
Over — over — over — Over — over — over —
$0 $7,825 10% $0 $0 $15,650 10% $0
7,825 31,850 $782.50 + 15% 7,825 15,650 63,700 $1,565.00 + 15% 15,650
31,850 64,250 4,386.25 + 25% 31,850 63,700 128,500 8,772.50 + 25% 63,700
64,250 97,925 12,486.25 + 28% 64,250 128,500 195,850 24,972.50 + 28% 128,500
97,925 174,850 21,915.25 + 33% 97,925 195,850 349,700 43,830.50 + 33% 195,850
174,850 47,300.50 + 35% 174,850 349,700 94,601.00 + 35% 349,700
Instructions for Form 1040NR -47-Page 48 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Index
A Estimated tax penalty ....... 25 N Standard mileage rate ....... 26
Address change ............ 31 Estimated tax, Nonresident aliens, State and local income taxes,
Adjustments ................ 15 individuals 23, 24, 25, 30 defined .................... 2 deduction for ............. 26
Adoption expenses: Excess salary deferrals ...... 10 Student loan interest
Employer-provided benefits Excess social security and Tier O deduction ................. 16
for ..................... 10 1 RRTA tax withheld ...... 23 Original issue discount ...... 29
Alternative minimum tax: Exemptions 9, 18 Other income ............... 15 T
Refundable credit for prior Extension of time to file ....... 4 Other taxes ................. 22 Tax computation
year .................... 23 worksheet ................ 18
Amended return ............. 31 F Tax rate schedules .......... 18
Amount you owe ............ 25 P
Filing requirements ........... 2 Tax rates ................... 18
Annuities 13, 29 Payments ................... 23
Filing status .................. 8 Tax table 18, 34-45
Penalties:
Foreign tax credit ........... 20 Early withdrawal of Tax withholding 23, 29
B Former U.S. citizens and savings ................. 16 Taxes:
Business income or long-term residents: Estimated tax ............. 25 Income effectively
(loss) ..................... 12 Expatriation after June 3, Frivolous return ........... 31 connected .............. 18
2004 .................... 6 Late filing ................. 31 Alternative minimum .... 19
C Expatriation before June 4, Late payment ............. 31 Archer MSAs ........... 22
2004 .................... 6 Other ..................... 31 Golden parachute
Capital assets, sales or
Pensions and annuities ...... 13 payments ............ 23
exchanges 12, 19, 29
IRAs and other qualified
Capital gain G Preparer, requirement to sign
retirement plans ...... 22
distributions 11, 12, 19 Gains and (losses), tax return ................. 30
Recapture taxes ........ 22
Capital gain tax capital 12, 29 Private delivery services ...... 4 Section 72(m)(5) excess
worksheet ................ 19 Golden parachute Problems, unresolved benefits .............. 22
Capital gains and payments ................. 23 tax ....................... 32 Social security and
(losses) 12, 19, 29 Group-term life insurance, Public debt—Gift to reduce Medicare tax on
Casualty and theft uncollected tax on ........ 23 the ....................... 31 tips .................. 22
losses .................... 27 Uncollected employee
Charity, gifts to 26-27 H Q social security and
Child and dependent care Health insurance deduction: Qualified dividends .......... 11 Medicare or Tier 1 RRTA
expenses: tax on tips ............ 23
Self-employed ............ 16 Qualified dividends tax
Credit for ................. 20 Health savings account worksheet ................ 19 Income not effectively
Child of divorced or separated connected .............. 29
deduction ................. 15 Qualified performing
parents, exemption for ..... 9 Household employment artists .................... 17 Taxpayer assistance ........ 32
Child tax credits 20, 23 taxes ..................... 22 Qualified retirement plans, Third party designee ........ 26
Community income ........... 6 Hurricane tax relief .......... 26 deduction for ............. 15 Tier 1 RRTA tax withheld .... 23
Credit for amount paid with Tip income 10, 22
Form 1040-C ............. 23 Transportation tax ........... 22
I R
Credits against tax ....5, 20, 21 Treaty-exempt income ...... 15
Identifying number ........... 8 Railroad retirement benefits
Trusts 3, 4, 8, 23
Identity theft ................ 30 (Tier 1) ................... 29
D Real property income Trusts, exemption deduction
Income tax withholding ...... 30 for........................ 18
Daycare expenses .......... 20 Income to be reported 9-15, election .................... 6
Credit for ................. 20 29 Records, how long to
Debt held by the public, gift to keep ..................... 31 U
Individual retirement
reduce ................... 31 arrangements (IRAs): Refund ..................... 23 U.S. real property interests,
Decedents ................... 3 Contributions to ........... 16 Refunds, credits, or offsets of dispositions of ............. 6
Dependent care benefits .... 10 Distributions from ......... 12 state and local income Unemployment
Dependents, exemption Installment payments ........ 25 taxes ..................... 11 compensation ............ 15
deduction for 9, 18 Interest charged due to late Reminders .................. 30 Unresolved tax problems .... 32
Direct deposit of refund ...... 24 payment of tax ............ 31 Rental income .............. 29
Dispositions of U.S. real Interest income 10, 29 Requesting a copy of your tax W
property interests .......... 6 Itemized deductions 18, return .................... 31 Wages and salaries 10, 29
Dividend income 11, 29 26-28 Resident aliens .............. 2 When to file .................. 4
Divorced or separated parents, Residential energy expenses: Where to file ................. 4
children of ................. 9 K Credit for ................. 20 Who must file ................ 2
Domestic production activities Kinds of income .............. 6 Retirement plan deduction, Widows and widowers,
deduction ................. 17 self-employed ............ 15 qualifying .................. 9
Dual-status taxpayers ........ 4 Rounding off to whole Winnings, proceeds from prizes,
L dollars ..................... 9
awards, gambling and
E Line instructions for Form Royalties ................... 29 lotteries .................. 29
1040NR ................... 8
Educator expenses Withholding tax 23, 29
deduction ................. 15 S
Effectively connected M Salaries and wages 10, 29 ■
income 9-15 Married persons who live Sales or exchanges, capital
Election to be taxed as a apart ...................... 8 assets 12, 29
resident alien .............. 4 Mileage rates, standard ...... 1 Scholarship and fellowship
Estates 3, 4, 8 Miscellaneous itemized grants 11, 16
Estates, exemption deduction deductions ................ 28 Social security benefits ...... 29
for........................ 18 Moving expenses 1, 15
-48- Instructions for Form 1040NRUserid: DTD TIP04 Leadpct: 0% Pt. size: 8 ❏ Draft ❏ Ok to Print
PAGER/SGML Fileid: D:\Users\d4rfb\Documents\Epicfiles\2007\07P4655.sgm (Init. & date)
Page 1 of 2 of Publication 4655 13:17 - 18-JAN-2008
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 4655 Introduction
(Rev. January 2008)
As a result of the Tax Technical Corrections Act
Cat. No. 51145E
of 2007, the following instructional changes ap-
Department
ply when completing the 2007 Form 1040 (or
of the
Form 1040NR). The paper and online versions
Treasury Supplemental of Form 1040 (and Form 1040NR) and instruc-
Internal tions will not be revised.
Revenue Service Instructions for
Changes to the 2007
2007 Form 1040 Instructions for Form
and Form 1040 (and Form
1040NR)
1040NR • The tax from Form 8889, Part III (relating
to health savings accounts) that was to be
reported on Form 1040, line 44 (or Form
1040NR, line 41), using checkbox “c” must
instead be included in the total on Form
1040, line 63 (or Form 1040NR, line 58),
as an additional write-in tax. On the dotted
line next to Form 1040, line 63 (or Form
1040NR, line 58), enter “HDHP” and the
amount of this tax.
• The additional tax on recapture of a chari-
table contribution of a fractional interest in
tangible personal property that was to be
included on Form 1040, line 44 (or Form
1040NR, line 41), must instead be in-
cluded in the total on Form 1040, line 63
(or Form 1040NR, line 58), as an addi-
tional write-in tax. On the dotted line next
to Form 1040, line 63 (or Form 1040NR,
line 58), enter “FITPP” and the amount of
this tax.
• All filers of Forms 2555 or 2555-EZ must
disregard the Foreign Earned Income Tax
Worksheet on page 34 of the Instructions
for Form 1040 and instead use the revised
worksheet on the next page.
Get forms and other information
faster and easier by:
Internet • www.irs.govPage 2 of 2 of Publication 4655 13:17 - 18-JAN-2008
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet—Line 44 Keep for Your Records
Before you begin: H12011 If Form 1040, line 43, is zero, do not complete this worksheet.
1. Enter the amount from Form 1040, line 43 1.
2. Enter the amount from your (and your spouse’s, if filing jointly) Form 2555, line 45, or Form 2555-EZ,
line 18 2.
3. Add lines 1 and 2 3.
4. Tax on the amount on line 3. Use the Tax Table, Tax Computation Worksheet, Qualified Dividends
and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet*, Schedule D Tax Worksheet*, or Form 8615, whichever applies.
See the instructions for Form 1040, line 44, to see which tax computation method applies 4.
5. Tax on the amount on line 2. Use the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet, whichever applies 5.
6. Subtract line 5 from line 4. Enter the result. If zero or less, enter –0–. Also include this amount on
Form 1040, line 44 6.
*Enter the amount from line 3 above on line 1 of the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet if you use
either of those worksheets to figure the tax on line 4 above. Complete the rest of that worksheet through line 6 (line 10 if you use the Schedule D
Tax Worksheet). Next, you must determine if you have a capital gain excess. To find out if you have a capital gain excess, subtract Form 1040,
line 43, from line 6 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet (line 10 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet). If the result is more
than zero, that amount is your capital gain excess.
If you do not have a capital gain excess, complete the rest of either of those worksheets according to the worksheet’s instructions. Then
complete lines 5 and 6 above.
If you have a capital gain excess, complete a second Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet
(whichever applies) as instructed above but in its entirety and with the following additional modifications. Then complete lines 5 and 6 above.
These modifications are to be made only for purposes of filling out the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet above.
1. Reduce the amount you would otherwise enter on line 3 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or line 9 of your
Schedule D Tax Worksheet (but not below zero) by your capital gain excess.
2. Reduce the amount you would otherwise enter on Form 1040, line 9b, (but not below zero) by any of your capital gain excess not used in (1)
above.
3. Reduce the amount on your Schedule D (Form 1040), line 18, (but not below zero) by your capital gain excess.
4. Include your capital gain excess as a loss on line 16 of your Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet on page D-9 of the Instructions for
Schedule D (Form 1040).
Page 2 Publication 4655 (January 2008)
