IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

1

Individual Diﬀerential Privacy: A Utility-Preserving
Formulation of Diﬀerential Privacy Guarantees
Jordi Soria-Comas, Josep Domingo-Ferrer, Fellow, IEEE, David Sánchez, and David Megías, Member, IEEE

Abstract—Diﬀerential privacy is a popular privacy
model within the research community because of the
strong privacy guarantee it oﬀers, namely that the
presence or absence of any individual in a data set does
not signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the results of analyses on the
data set. However, enforcing this strict guarantee in
practice signiﬁcantly distorts data and/or limits data
uses, thus diminishing the analytical utility of the dif-
ferentially private results. In an attempt to address this
shortcoming, several relaxations of diﬀerential privacy
have been proposed that trade oﬀ privacy guarantees
for improved data utility. In this work, we argue that
the standard formalization of diﬀerential privacy is
stricter than required by the intuitive privacy guar-
antee it seeks. In particular, the standard formaliza-
tion requires indistinguishability of results between any
pair of neighbor data sets, while indistinguishability
between the actual data set and its neighbor data sets
should be enough. This limits the data controller’s
ability to adjust the level of protection to the actual
data, hence resulting in signiﬁcant accuracy loss. In
this respect, we propose individual diﬀerential privacy,
an alternative diﬀerential privacy notion that oﬀers
the same privacy guarantees as standard diﬀerential
privacy to individuals (even though not to groups of
individuals). This new notion allows the data controller
to adjust the distortion to the actual data set, which
results in less distortion and more analytical accuracy.
We propose several mechanisms to attain individual
diﬀerential privacy and we compare the new notion
against standard diﬀerential privacy in terms of the
accuracy of the analytical results.

Index Terms—Data privacy, Data utility, Diﬀerential

privacy.

I. Introduction

The development of

information technologies has
boosted the collection of data about individuals. Data
stores containing personal data are a valuable resource
to support decision making both in the public and the
private sector. However, individuals have growing concerns
on the use of their potentially sensitive data. In order to
guarantee the fundamental right of individuals to privacy,
appropriate data protection measures to limit disclosure
risk must be implemented before making data available
for analysis.

J. Soria-Comas, J. Domingo-Ferrer and D. Sánchez are with the
UNESCO Chair in Data Privacy, Department of Computer Engi-
neering and Mathematics, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Av. Països
Catalans 26, E-43007 Tarragona, Catalonia. E-mail {jordi.soria,
josep.domingo, david.sanchez}@urv.cat

D. Megías is with the Estudis d’Informàtica, Multimèdia i Tele-
comunicació, Internet Interdisciplinary Institute (IN3), Universitat
Oberta de Catalunya, Av. Carl Friedrich Gauss 5, E-08860 Castellde-
fels, Catalonia. E-mail dmegias@uoc.edu

Essentially, two main approaches exist in statistical
disclosure control [1], [2] to limit the disclosure risk: (i)
non-interactive protection, whereby a protected version
of the original data set collected from the data subjects
is generated and released, and (ii) interactive protection,
whereby a user-queried data analysis is performed on the
original data set, and then a protected version of the
results is returned to the user. When the type of data
analysis is not known at the time of data protection,
the former approach is the only viable solution; however,
for a ﬁxed data analysis known beforehand, interactive
protection should be preferred as it allows adjusting the
level of protection to the analysis being performed, which
makes it possible to maximize the accuracy of the results.
In this work, we focus on the interactive setting, which
diﬀerential privacy [3] has substantially advanced. The
main contribution of diﬀerential privacy is the strong
privacy guarantee it provides: while it does not prevent
disclosure, it guarantees that a disclosure is equally likely
whether or not any particular individual contributes her
data. This is diametrically opposed to the aim of privacy
models focusing on the non-interactive setting [4],
[5],
[6], [7], which seek to provide absolute guarantees against
speciﬁc types of intruders (with a speciﬁc knowledge on the
data to be protected). The problem of the latter models is
that real intruders may diﬀer from the speciﬁc intruders
considered by the models; in particular, real intruders may
know more than assumed.

However, despite its popularity among researchers and
the step forward it oﬀers in terms of privacy guarantees,
diﬀerential privacy is only being deployed to a limited
extent in real-world applications. The basic reason is
the poor accuracy/utility of diﬀerentially private results.
Except for a number of well-behaved applications (queries
that are stable to modiﬁcation of one record), diﬀerential
privacy has too large an impact on utility for it to be
widely used in data analysis/mining (see related remarks
in Section III). This is also conﬁrmed by the amount of
relaxations of diﬀerential privacy that have been proposed
(see Section III), which seek to improve the accuracy of
the results by trading it oﬀ against privacy guarantees.

In any case, the intuition behind diﬀerential privacy,
that is, “the presence or absence of an individual in a
data set should not signiﬁcantly modify the results of the
analysis”, is very adequate for disclosure risk limitation: if
the data on an individual have a signiﬁcant impact on the
results of an analysis, most probably the privacy of this
individual is at risk. Thus, intuitively, diﬀerential privacy
ensures the data are adequately protected.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

2

However, we argue here that the standard formalization
of diﬀerential privacy is stronger (and, thus, leads to more
data distortion and less useful results) than what the above
data protection intuition requires. This can be seen from
two diﬀerent but related points of view:

• Diﬀerential privacy assumes the presence of a trusted
party that holds the data set, receives queries sub-
mitted by the users and returns diﬀerentially private
results for these queries. In the standard diﬀerential
privacy formulation, the trusted party is not allowed
to use its knowledge of the actual data set when com-
puting the noise to be added to the query response in
order to protect privacy.

• Diﬀerential privacy provides provable privacy guaran-
tees to groups of data subjects (in addition to those
that derive from the guarantees given to each data
subject individually). These guarantees for groups
go beyond the previously mentioned intuition behind
diﬀerential privacy, which is about protecting single
individuals.

While being more demanding than required by the intu-
itive notion of diﬀerential privacy may be meaningful, we
argue in the following sections that enforcing an actually
stronger privacy notion may have a signiﬁcant negative
impact on the accuracy/utility of the protected results.
Thus, if data utility is a priority, the suitability of includ-
ing additional guarantees (i.e., group-based diﬀerential
privacy) should be carefully pondered. Besides, in statis-
tical disclosure control, the goal is to prevent accurate
inferences on single individuals, but accurate inferences
on groups (statistical and aggregate computations) are
usually viewed as legitimate analyses.

In this line, we propose here individual diﬀerential pri-
vacy, a novel formalization of diﬀerential privacy that is
aligned with the intuitive diﬀerential privacy guarantees.
Our approach limits the protection to the individuals in
the data set (as suggested in the intuitive notion), rather
than extending it to groups of individuals (as formalized in
the standard deﬁnition of diﬀerential privacy). In practice,
this means that the trusted party managing the data can
make use of its knowledge of the actual data set at the time
of query response and downwardly adjust the distortion
to the actual data; as a consequence of the lower data
distortion, the accuracy/utility of the protected results can
be signiﬁcantly improved in comparison with the standard
formulation of diﬀerential privacy.

Nonetheless, we will also indicate how to extend individ-
ual diﬀerential privacy to group diﬀerential privacy, in case
the data controller wants to oﬀer privacy guarantees for
groups while still leveraging his knowledge on the actual
data set when computing the distortion to be added for
protection.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II provides background on the standard formulation
and the usual mechanisms to attain diﬀerential privacy.
Section III reviews related work aimed at improving the
accuracy/utility of diﬀerentially private results and high-
lights the diﬀerences with our approach. In Section IV, we

present and formalize our individual diﬀerential privacy
model and in Section V we propose several mechanisms
to satisfy it that exploit its less strict formulation to
reduce data distortion. Section VI analyzes the accuracy
of individually diﬀerentially private results of several com-
mon queries and compares their accuracy against the
one obtained using standard diﬀerential privacy. The ﬁnal
section presents the conclusions along with some future
research lines.

II. Background on Differential Privacy

Diﬀerential privacy was originally proposed in [3] as a
privacy model for the interactive setting, that is, to protect
the results of queries to a database. In this setting, a
diﬀerentially private sanitization mechanism sits between
the user submitting queries and the database controller
answering them. To preserve the privacy of individuals, the
sanitization mechanism must guarantee that the contribu-
tion of each individual’s data to a query result is limited
(according to an (cid:2) parameter).
Deﬁnition 1 ((cid:2)-diﬀerential privacy). A randomized func-
tion κ gives (cid:2)-diﬀerential privacy (or (cid:2)-DP) if, for all data
sets D1 and D2 that diﬀer in one record (a.k.a. neighbor
data sets), and all S ⊂ Range(κ), we have

Pr(κ(D1) ∈ S)≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(κ(D2) ∈ S).

Let D be the data set that is to be protected. Given
a query f , the goal in DP is to ﬁnd an approximation
to f that satisﬁes the privacy requirements stated in
Deﬁnition 1. Let us call κf such an approximation. The
value of κf (D) is then returned as the query result, instead
of the actual value f (D).

In the following, we refer to the diﬀerentially private
condition in terms of indistinguishability: the distributions
of the responses to the queries between data sets that diﬀer
in one record are similar.

An interesting property of DP, which the privacy models
in the k-anonymity family (k-anonymity [4], l-diversity [5],
t-closeness [6], etc.) do not have, is composition: com-
posing several diﬀerentially private results still satisﬁes
DP, although with a diﬀerent (cid:2) parameter value. Several
composition theorems have been stated. The most basic
ones are:
Theorem 1 (Sequential composition). Let κ1 be a ran-
domized function giving (cid:2)1-DP and κ2 a randomized func-
tion giving (cid:2)2-DP. Then, any deterministic function of
(κ1, κ2) gives ((cid:2)1 + (cid:2)2)-DP.
Theorem 2 (Parallel composition). Let κ1 and κ2 be
randomized functions giving (cid:2)-DP. If κ1 and κ2 are applied
to disjoint data sets or subsets of records, any deterministic
function of (κ1, κ2) gives (cid:2)-DP.

The computational mechanism to attain DP is often
called a diﬀerentially private sanitizer. Diﬀerentially pri-
vate mechanisms for numerical data can be seen as noise
addition mechanisms that, rather than returning the ac-
tual query value f (D), mask it by adding some noise.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

3

The amount of noise that needs to be added depends
on the variability of the query function between neighbor
data sets. This noise may be: (i) independent of the data
set, which requires adjusting the noise to the maximum
variability between neighbor data sets, or (ii) dependent
on the data set, which allows adjusting the level of noise
to the variability of f in the actual data set.

A. Noise calibration to the global sensitivity

The global sensitivity measures the maximum variabil-

ity of a function between neighbor data sets.
Deﬁnition 2 (l1-sensitivity (a.k.a. global sensitivity)).
The l1-sensitivity of a function f : D → Rk is

Δf = max
x,y∈D

d(x,y)=1

(cid:6)f (x) − f (y)(cid:6)1 ,

where d(x, y) means that data sets x and y diﬀer in one
record.

In calibration to the global sensitivity, DP is attained by
adding a noise to the query response that is proportional
to the global sensitivity; that is, the maximum variability
of the query response in the domain of the data. Several
noise distributions are possible (e.g. the Laplace distribu-
tion [8], the optimal absolutely continuous distribution [9],
and the discrete Laplace distribution [10]). For the sake
of conciseness, we focus on the commonly used Laplace
distribution.
Proposition 1. Let f be a query function with values in
Rk. The mechanism κf (X) = f (X) + (N1, . . . , Nk), where
Ni are independent and identically distributed random
noises drawn from a Laplace(0, (cid:2)/Δf ) distribution, is (cid:2)-
diﬀerentially private.

B. Noise calibration to the smooth sensitivity

Even if the variability of the query function in the actual
data set is small, quite often its variability in the data
domain (i.e., global sensitivity) is large. In these cases,
the use of a noise calibrated to the global sensitivity
may seriously and unjustiﬁedly damage data, but a data-
dependent noise may still permit accurate results. Given
a data set D, the variability of a function between D and
its neighbor data sets is known as the local sensitivity.
Deﬁnition 3 (Local sensitivity [11]). Let f be a function
that is evaluated at data sets and returns values in Rk.
The local sensitivity of f at D is

LSf (D) = max

y:d(y,D)=1

(cid:6)f (y) − f (D)(cid:6)1 .

Obviously, the global sensitivity upper-bounds the local
sensitivity. Moreover, the local sensitivity is usually small,
except for especially ill-conditioned data sets. In this case,
the gap between the global and the local sensitivity can
be large. This is illustrated in the following example for a
function that returns the median of a list of values.

Example 1. Consider a data set X = {x1, . . . , xn}, where
each record corresponds to a value in {0, 1}. For the sake
of simplicity, we assume that the number of records is odd,
say n = 2m+1, so that the median corresponds to a single
record, the m + 1-th record. The global sensitivity of the
median is 1, since we can consider the neighbor data sets:

{0, m+1. . . , 0, 1, m. . ., 1} → median = 0,
{0, m. . ., 0, 1, m+1. . . , 1} → median = 1.

The local sensitivity is, except for the two previous data
sets, always 0. The reason is that, except for the previous
data sets, changing the value of a record does not modify
the median.

In most cases, releasing the value of a query with a
magnitude of noise proportional to the local sensitivity
(rather than the global sensitivity) would result in a signif-
icantly more accurate response. However, using the local
sensitivity in mechanisms designed for global sensitivity
does not yield DP.
Example 2. Consider the data sets: {0, m+2. . . , 0, 1, m−1. . . , 1}
and {0, m+1. . . , 0, 1, m. . ., 1}. In both cases the median is 0, but
the local sensitivity diﬀers; it is 0 in the ﬁrst case and 1
in the second one:

X = {0, m+2. . . , 0, 1, m−1. . . , 1}
X (cid:3) = {0, m+1. . . , 0, 1, m. . ., 1}

median
0
0

local sensitivity
0
1

Given that the local sensitivity for X is 0, adding a noise
proportional to the local sensitivity does not modify the
median; thus, the probability of getting 1 is 0. For (cid:2)-DP
to be satisﬁed, the probability of getting 1 for X (cid:3) must
also be 0. However, that is not the case, since the local
sensitivity for X (cid:3) is diﬀerent from 0.

The previous example shows that the amount of noise
used to protect a data set should not only be proportional
to its local sensitivity but also take into account the local
sensitivity of neighbor data sets. Considering the local
sensitivity of neighbor data sets leads to the notion of
smooth sensitivity.
Deﬁnition 4 (Smooth sensitivity). For β > 0 and a data
set D ∈ D, the β-smooth sensitivity of f at D is deﬁned
as

Sf,β(D) = max
y∈D

(LSf (y) exp(−βd(D, y))).

The greater the parameter β, the smaller the depen-
dence of the smooth sensitivity on the local sensitivity of
neighbor data sets. Thus, the amount of noise required to
attain (cid:2)-DP must depend on other factors apart from the
smooth sensitivity. In particular, a special kind of distribu-
tions, known as (α, β)-admissible distributions [11], must
be used. The downside of these distributions is that they
are heavy-tailed.

III. Related Work

Even though DP is appreciated for the strong privacy
guarantees it oﬀers, its practical deployment is hampered

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

4

by the poor accuracy oﬀered by diﬀerentially private
mechanisms.

Works that discuss the accuracy limitations of diﬀeren-
tially private results in diﬀerent contexts include [12], [13],
[14], [15], [16]. Although these accuracy issues have hin-
dered the practical adoption of DP, they have also boosted
further research to ﬁnd ﬁxes. This research has taken two
main lines: (i) to come up with novel diﬀerentially private
mechanisms that improve the accuracy of the results, and
(ii) to propose relaxations of DP that require less data
distortion and allow for more accurate results.

An outcome of the ﬁrst line is the design of general
mechanisms that improve accuracy with respect to the ba-
sic Laplace noise addition mechanism. In [11], the calibra-
tion of Laplace noise to the global sensitivity of the data is
replaced by the calibration of suitable noises to the smooth
sensitivity. On the other hand, the authors of [9] showed
that the Laplace distribution is not optimal to attain DP
based on calibration to the global sensitivity. They de-
scribed and constructed the optimal absolutely continuous
distributions: essentially, a distribution is optimal if the
probability mass is as concentrated as possible around zero
given the DP constraints. Other outcomes of the ﬁrst line
of research are mechanisms that are less sensitive. In [17],
[18], [19], several methods based on microaggregation of
records are proposed to generate diﬀerentially private
data sets. In [20], the dependence between attributes is
analyzed to reduce the dimensionality in the computation
of diﬀerentially private histograms. Other works that try
to improve the accuracy in histogram publication are [21],
[22]. In [23], a diﬀerentially private alternative to the ID3
algorithm for learning decision trees is proposed.

The second line of research, focused on ﬁnding relax-
ations of DP, has been active since the inception of DP.
In [24], the concept of δ-approximate (cid:2)-indistinguishability
is presented (a.k.a. ((cid:2), δ)-indistinguishability in [11]). This
relaxation allows some additional margin δ to the require-
ments in DP. In [25], the notion of ((cid:2), δ)-probabilistic
diﬀerential privacy (a.k.a. ((cid:2), δ)-pdp) is proposed. Rather
than allowing some additional margin, it requires (cid:2)-DP
to be satisﬁed with probability greater than 1 − δ. In
other words, the probability that the adversary gains
signiﬁcant information about an individual is, at most, δ.
Yet another relaxation is given in [15], who assume that
conﬁdential data become less sensitive over time, which
allows relaxing privacy parameters for older data. In [26],
a relaxation is presented that restricts the deﬁnition of
neighbor data sets: they are no longer data sets diﬀering
in any record, but in a record within a certain subset.
In [27], an alternative relaxation of DP, called (μ, τ )-
is proposed. Similarly
concentrated diﬀerential privacy,
to ((cid:2), δ)-pdp, concentrated diﬀerential privacy allows the
ratio of probabilities to be arbitrarily large with a small
probability that is determined by the parameters μ and τ .
In all the above relaxations, the accuracy gain is ob-
tained by allowing the diﬀerentially private condition to
be broken: the presence or absence of an individual may
leak some information, although not too much or only with

a small probability. The relaxation that we propose in the
next section is diﬀerent in the sense that the privacy guar-
antees for individuals envisioned in the original deﬁnition
of DP are preserved.

IV. Individual differential privacy

The existing relaxations of DP violate strict DP be-
cause, under some circumstances, they permit the proba-
bility of responses to diﬀer signiﬁcantly between neighbor
data sets. In this section, we take a diﬀerent approach
to improve data accuracy/utility. Rather than propos-
ing another relaxation, we analyze the intuitive privacy
guarantees that DP seeks to capture and we suggest an
alternative deﬁnition that allows exactly attaining these
privacy guarantees and nothing more.

A. Intuitive view of diﬀerential privacy

As introduced above, DP assumes the presence of a
trusted party that: (i) holds the data set, (ii) receives the
queries submitted by the data users, and (iii) responds to
them in a privacy-aware manner.

We described in Section II that the standard notion of
DP is formalized in terms of indistinguishability of the
response to queries between neighbor data sets. However,
prior to this formalization, [3] provided an intuitive de-
scription of the privacy guarantees aimed at by DP:

Any given disclosure will be, within a small
multiplicative factor, just as likely whether or not
the individual participates in the database. As
a consequence, there is a nominally higher risk
for the individual who participates, and only a
nominal gain for the individual who conceals or
misrepresents her data.

Thus, individuals should not be reluctant to participate in
the data set. After all, the risk of disclosure is only very
marginally increased by participation.

Providing relative (rather than absolute) privacy guar-
antees is the only sensible approach to deal with intruders
having arbitrary side knowledge. Absolute privacy guar-
antees against arbitrary side knowledge are incompatible
with releasing accurate statistics. This is illustrated in [3]
with a simple example about the height of an individual
I: if the intruder knows that the height of I is two inches
above the average height of the population of a country,
then releasing an accurate approximation of the average
height of the population provides the intruder with an
accurate estimate of I’s height. Here it is important to
notice that such disclosure happens even if I does not
participate in the data set. Thus, the disclosure is not
associated to I’s participation in the data set, but to the
accurate side knowledge. This illustrates that diﬀerential
privacy cannot guarantee that disclosure will not happen;
what it guarantees is that, should disclosure happen, it
will not be due to the participation of any particular
individual.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

5

B. Formalization of individual diﬀerential privacy

DP is the result of formalizing the intuitive view of
privacy described in Section IV-A into a rigorous math-
ematical deﬁnition. However, the fact that in this for-
malization (see Deﬁnition 1) results are required to be
indistinguishable between any pair of neighbor data sets
is more stringent than required by the intuitive view of
privacy that is described above. Let us explain this in
greater detail.

Consider an individual I who has to decide between
participating in a data set or not. To neutralize any
reluctance by I to disclose her private information, I is
told that query answers based on the data set will not
allow anyone to learn anything that was not learnable
without I’s presence; this is precisely the intuitive privacy
guarantee DP oﬀers. Although DP controls the access to
a data set regardless of the way the data were collected
(either through voluntary participation or not), thinking
in terms of voluntary participation is clarifying: we can
think that an individual accepts to participate if she
regards privacy protection as suﬃcient.

To attain such privacy guarantees, DP requires the
response to be indistinguishable between any pair of neigh-
bor data sets. While such a requirement yields the target
privacy guarantees indeed, it is an overkill because, in
reality, queries are not answered on an arbitrary data
set, but on the actual data set held by the trusted
party. In other words,
if D is the collected data set,
the target privacy guarantees can be attained by just
requiring indistinguishability of the responses between D
and its neighbor data sets. Notice that, although the
data set D is not known until all the individuals have
made their decisions about participating/contributing to
it, the presence of a trusted party that controls the access
to D makes it possible to give the previously described
indistinguishability guarantees. After all, the data set D is
known to the trusted party at the time of query response.
According to the previous discussion, we propose the
following privacy model, which we call (cid:2)-individual diﬀer-
ential privacy.
Deﬁnition 5 ((cid:2)-individual diﬀerential privacy). Given
a data set D, a response mechanism κ(·) satisﬁes (cid:2)-
individual diﬀerential privacy (or (cid:2)-iDP) if, for any data
set D(cid:3) that is a neighbor of D, and any S ⊂ Range(κ) we
have

exp(−(cid:2)) Pr(κ(D(cid:3)) ∈ S) ≤ Pr(κ(D) ∈ S)
≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(κ(D(cid:3)) ∈ S).

In line with Deﬁnition 1, we require the probability of
any result to diﬀer between neighbor data sets at most
by a factor of exp((cid:2)). However, unlike in Deﬁnition 1,
the role of the data sets D and D(cid:3) is not exchangeable:
D refers to the actual data set, and D(cid:3) to a neighbor
data set of D. The asymmetry between D and D(cid:3) is rele-
vant, because indistinguishability is achieved only between
D and its neighbor data sets. As a side eﬀect of this
asymmetry, we need to explicitly enforce an upper bound

(Pr(κ(D) ∈ S)≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(κ(D(cid:3)) ∈ S)) and a lower bound
(exp(−(cid:2)) Pr(κ(D(cid:3)) ∈ S)) ≤ Pr(κ(D) ∈ S)). This was not
needed in Deﬁnition 1 because the upper bound could be
obtained from the lower bound by exchanging the roles of
D and D(cid:3).

To illustrate the implications of the diﬀerences between
DP and iDP, consider a data set D whose records are either
0 or 1, and assume that we query the data set for the
median. We consider two cases, D1 = {0, 0, 0, 0, 1} and
D2 = {0, 0, 0, 1, 1}, which are discussed next:

• In data set D1, the median is 0. Moreover, the median
remains 0 after modiﬁcation of any single record.
Since the median is unaﬀected by the contribution
of any single individual, there is no way to learn
anything about an individual from the median of D1.
Hence, according to iDP, the median of D1 can be
released without any masking. This is not the case
according to DP, where the mere existence of a pair
of neighbor data sets (not involving D1) with diﬀerent
values for the median requires masking it (even if the
median of D1 discloses nothing about any individual).
• In data set D2, the median is 0, but a change in
a single record is enough for the median to become
1. Since a single individual may aﬀect the result of
the median, information about an individual might
be learned from the value of the median. To limit the
risk of disclosure, both DP and iDP require masking
the outcome of the median.

In the previous example, we have considered boundary
cases where the change of a single record can make it
necessary or unnecessary to mask the query result. Let
us now consider a diﬀerent case, consisting of a data set
D3 with 99 binary records, of which 90 contain the value 1.
Clearly, no single individual has any eﬀect on the median
of D3. Thus, iDP does not require any masking for the
answer to the median query. In contrast, under DP the
possible existence of a data set D4 containing forty-nine
0s and ﬁfty 1s has to be considered, in which a single
individual can change the median; since this data set must
be indistinguishable from its neighbors given the value
of its median, the answer to the median query must be
masked even for D3 (although D3 and D4 are far from
neighbors).

Like in DP, two diﬀerent notions of neighbor data sets
D and D(cid:3) are possible in iDP. We can either think of D(cid:3) as
a data set generated from D by modifying one record or
as a data set generated from D by adding or removing one
record. Although such a choice can make some diﬀerence
in terms of query answers, both alternatives are similar as
far as disclosure risk limitation is concerned. In the sequel,
we assume that D(cid:3) is generated from D by modifying one
record.

Strictly speaking, individual diﬀerential privacy is a re-
laxation of DP where indistinguishability is only required
between the actual data set D and its neighbor data sets.
Thus, the following holds:
Proposition 2. Any mechanism that satisﬁes (cid:2)-DP also

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

6

satisﬁes (cid:2)-iDP for any actual data set D.

However, unlike other relaxations in the literature, in-
dividual diﬀerential privacy preserves the strict privacy
guarantees that DP gives to individuals. In this sense,
rather than being regarded as a relaxation,
individual
diﬀerential privacy can be construed as a more precise
formalization of the intuitive notion of privacy described
in Section IV-A.

Even though we can satisfy (cid:2)-iDP by resorting to the
mechanisms commonly used to satisfy (cid:2)-DP, doing so
would squander the potential accuracy gains of (cid:2)-iDP. The
reason is that, as discussed in Section II, being able to
adjust the noise to the actual data set may signiﬁcantly
reduce its magnitude. In Section V, we design mechanisms
that are speciﬁc to (cid:2)-iDP.

C. Disclosure limitation for groups of data subjects

If (cid:2)-iDP oﬀers all the intuitive privacy guarantees of
(cid:2)-diﬀerential privacy while allowing more accuracy, it is
because (cid:2)-iDP oﬀers nothing more than those intuitive
guarantees. Let us discuss this issue here.

Even if DP seeks to protect privacy by limiting the
impact of each single individual on a query response,
Deﬁnition 1 also results in (limited) privacy guarantees
for groups of individuals. For example, if data sets D1 and
D3 diﬀer in two individuals (two records), by considering
the intermediate data set D2 that diﬀers in one individual
from D1 and in one individual from D3, we have
Pr(κ(D1) ∈ S) ≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(κ(D2) ∈ S),
Pr(κ(D2) ∈ S) ≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(κ(D3) ∈ S),

which results in

Pr(κ(D1) ∈ S) ≤ exp(2(cid:2)) Pr(κ(D3) ∈ S).

That is, (cid:2)-DP guarantees that the knowledge gain for
groups of two individuals is limited by the factor exp(2(cid:2)).
More generally, the knowledge gain for a group of n
individuals is limited by the factor exp(n(cid:2)).

In contrast, with iDP, the fact that the response mech-
anism is adjusted to each concrete data set makes the
concatenation of inequalities not possible. Speciﬁcally, for
the data sets D1, D2 and D3 above, iDP provides the
upper bounds

Direct group privacy guarantees not being part of the
intuitive notion of DP (which is aimed at individuals), but
rather a by-product of the formalization in Deﬁnition 1,
we drop such group guarantees in order to improve data
utility. However, the proposed iDP could be modiﬁed to
retain privacy guarantees for groups of individuals, by
requiring indistinguishability between the data set D and
the data sets D(cid:3) that diﬀer from D in a group of records,
as follows.
Deﬁnition 6 (((cid:2)1, . . . , (cid:2)n)-group diﬀerential privacy).
Given a data set D, a response mechanism κ sat-
((cid:2)1, . . . , (cid:2)n)-group diﬀerential privacy (denoted
isﬁes
((cid:2)1, . . . , (cid:2)n)-gDP) if, for any data set D(cid:3) at distance i ∈
{1, . . . , n} from D, and any S ⊂ Range(κ) it holds

exp(−(cid:2)i) Pr(κ(D(cid:3)) ∈ S) ≤ Pr(κ(D) ∈ S)
≤ exp((cid:2)i) Pr(κ(D(cid:3)) ∈ S).

Notice that, in general, the level of protection for groups
should be smaller than for individuals. For example, in DP,
the (cid:2) parameter grows linearly with the cardinality of the
group and, thus, the level of indistinguishability decreases
exponentially with the size of the group. As a result, even
in standard DP, protection for groups of individuals is only
noticeable for small values of (cid:2) (which on the other hand
severely damage data utility) and for small groups. To
attain an equivalent level of protection with gDP, it must
be (cid:2)i = i(cid:2) for i ∈ N.

D. Composition theorems

The composition theorems for DP described in Sec-
tion II are also trivially satisﬁed by individual diﬀerential
privacy.
Theorem 3 (Sequential composition). Let κ1 be a mech-
anism giving (cid:2)1-iDP and κ2 a mechanism giving (cid:2)2-iDP.
Then, any deterministic function of (κ1, κ2) gives (cid:2)1 + (cid:2)2-
iDP.
Theorem 4 (Parallel composition). Let κ1 and κ2 be
mechanisms giving (cid:2)-iDP. If κ1 and κ2 are applied to
disjoint data sets or subsets of records, any deterministic
function of (κ1, κ2) gives (cid:2)-iDP.

The proofs of the theorems for iDP are not detailed
because they are straightforward adaptations of the proofs
of Theorems 1 and 2 for DP.

Pr(κ(D1) ∈ S) ≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(κ(D2) ∈ S),
Pr(κ(cid:3)(D2) ∈ S) ≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(κ(cid:3)(D3) ∈ S),

E. Privacy axioms

where κ is a mechanism whose distortion is calibrated on
D1 and κ(cid:3) is a mechanism whose distortion is calibrated
on D2. Note that the probability on the right-hand side of
the ﬁrst inequality does not match the probability on the
left-hand side of the second inequality.

Therefore, with iDP we lose any direct privacy guar-
antees for groups of
individuals. In other words, any
disclosure risk limitation for a group that may subsist
under (cid:2)-iDP is an indirect consequence of the disclosure
risk limitation obtained by each individual in the group.

In [28], an axiomatization of the notions of privacy and
utility is proposed. In particular, two desirable properties
of privacy models are described: the axiom of transforma-
tion invariance and the privacy axiom of choice.

The axiom of transformation invariance says that post-
processing of sanitized data must be safe as long as
no sensitive information is incorporated into the post-
processing.
Deﬁnition 7 (Axiom of transformation invariance). Sup-
pose we have a privacy deﬁnition, a privacy mechanism M

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

7

that satisﬁes this deﬁnition, and a randomized algorithm
A whose input space is the output space of M and whose
randomness is independent of both the data and the
randomness in M . Then M (cid:3) = A◦M must also be a privacy
mechanism satisfying that privacy deﬁnition.
Proposition 3. (cid:2)-iDP satisﬁes the axiom of transforma-
tion invariance.

Proof. Let M be an (cid:2)-iDP mechanism, and let A be a
randomized algorithm whose input space is the output
space of M and whose randomness is independent of both
the data and the randomness in M . According to [28],
we can think of M and A as returning independent
probability distributions. That is, M : D → Dist(E)
assigns to each data set D a probability distribution over
E such that, for each D(cid:3) that diﬀers in one record from
D, we have exp(−(cid:2)) Pr(M (D(cid:3)) ∈ S) ≤ Pr(M (D) ∈ S)
≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(M (D(cid:3)) ∈ S). On the other hand, A : E →
Dist(F ) assigns to each e ∈ E a probability distribution
over F .

To check that

S)) ≤
Pr(A(M (D)) ∈ S) ≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(A(M (D(cid:3))) ∈ S),
we decompose Pr(A(M (d)) ∈ S) as
x∈S Pr(M (d) =
y) Pr(A(y) = x) and we use that M satisﬁes (cid:2)-iDP.

exp(−(cid:2)) Pr(A(M (D(cid:3))
(cid:2)

∈

The privacy axiom of choice allows randomly choosing

between (cid:2)-iDP mechanisms.
Deﬁnition 8 (Privacy axiom of choice). Let M1 and
M2 be privacy mechanisms that satisfy a certain privacy
deﬁnition. For any p ∈ [0, 1], let Mp be a randomized
algorithm that, on input i, outputs M1(i) with probability
p (independent of the data and the randomness in M1 and
M2) and M2(i) with probability 1−p. Then Mp is a privacy
mechanism that satisﬁes the privacy deﬁnition.
Proposition 4. (cid:2)-iDP satisﬁes the privacy axiom of
choice.
Proof. Let M1 and M2 be (cid:2)-iDP mechanisms, and let p ∈
[0, 1]. Let Mp be a mechanism that, on input i, outputs
M1(i) with probability p and M2(i) with probability 1 − p.
We want to check that Mp is (cid:2)-iDP. That is, for any
D(cid:3) neighbor of D, we have exp(−(cid:2)) Pr(Mp(D(cid:3)) ∈ S) ≤
Pr(Mp(D) ∈ S) ≤ exp((cid:2)) Pr(Mp(D(cid:3)) ∈ S). This is easily
seen by expressing Pr(Mp(D) ∈ S) as p × Pr(M1(D) ∈
S) + (1 − p) × Pr(M2(D) ∈ S) and using that both M1 and
M2 satisfy (cid:2)-iDP.

V. (cid:2)-iDP for Numerical Queries

In DP, response mechanisms for numerical queries are
often expressed in terms of noise addition (see Section II).
In this line, given a numerical query f , this section presents
an (cid:2)-iDP mechanism of the form κ(x) = f (x) + N , where
N is a random noise.

For κ(x) = f (x) + N to be (cid:2)-iDP, we have to make
sure that the result of the mechanism is indistinguish-
able between D and its neighbor data sets. As we show
later, this can be done by adjusting the noise to the

local sensitivity LSf (D) (see Deﬁnition 3). The ability to
calibrate the noise to the local sensitivity rather than to
the global or smooth sensitivities is a signiﬁcant advantage
to preserve data utility: ﬁrst, many functions have small
local sensitivity but large global sensitivity, as noted right
after Deﬁnition 3 above; second, calibration to the local
sensitivity also improves the accuracy of query responses
with respect to calibration to the smooth sensitivity, not
only because the local sensitivity is smaller than the
smooth sensitivity, but also because calibration to the lo-
cal sensitivity allows using exponentially decreasing noise
distributions (rather than the heavy-tailed distributions
required by calibration to the smooth sensitivity). Last
but not least, calibration to the local sensitivity is simpler
than calibration to the smooth sensitivity.

We next detail how to enforce iDP for both continuous

and discrete numerical results.

A. Laplace mechanism

The Laplace(μ, b) distribution (a.k.a the double expo-
nential distribution) is an absolutely continuous distribu-
tion whose density function is

Lμ,b(x) =

1
2b

exp

(cid:3)

(cid:4)

,

−

|x − μ|
b

where μ is the location parameter, and b is the scale
parameter. We use Lb(x) when the mean parameter is zero.
In case of using the Laplace distribution to generate the

random noise, iDP can be rewritten as follows.
Proposition 5. Let f
be a query function that
takes values in Rk. The mechanism κ(x) = f (x) +
(N1, . . . , Nk), where Ni are independent identically dis-
tributed Laplace(0, LSf (D)/(cid:2)) random noises, gives (cid:2)-iDP.

(cid:4)

(cid:3)

−

exp

Proof. If N is a vector of independent Laplace(0, β) dis-
tributed variables, we know that for all s ∈ Rk
(cid:3)

(cid:6)z − z(cid:3)(cid:6)1
β

≤ Pr(z + N = s)
Pr(z(cid:3) + N = s)
Let D(cid:3) be a data set that diﬀers from D in one record.
By taking z = f (D), z(cid:3) = f (D(cid:3)), and β = LSf (D)/(cid:2) we
get

≤ exp

(cid:6)z − z(cid:3)(cid:6)1
β

(cid:4)

.

exp(−(cid:2)) ≤ Pr(f (D) + N = s)
Pr(f (D(cid:3)) + N = s)

≤ exp((cid:2)).

B. Discrete Laplace mechanism

The previous mechanism (based on adding random noise
with values in R) is also capable of providing DP to
query functions with values in Z. However, for such query
functions the use of a noise distribution with support over
Z is a better option. The discrete version of the Laplace
distribution is deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 9 (Discrete Laplace distribution [10]). A ran-
dom variable N follows the discrete Laplace distribution

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

8

with parameter α ∈ (0, 1), denoted by DL(α), if for all
k ∈ Z,

Pr(N = i) =

1 − α
1 + α

|i|

.

α

The discrete Laplace distribution can also be used to
attain (cid:2)-iDP. To this end, the parameter α must be
adjusted to the desired privacy level (cid:2) and to the local
sensitivity LSf (D) of the query.
Theorem 5 (The discrete Laplace mechanism). Let f
be a function with values in Zk. The discrete mechanism
κD(x) = f (x) + N , where N = (N1, . . . , Nk) and Ni ∼
DL(exp(−(cid:2)/LSf (D))) are independent random variables,
gives (cid:2)-iDP.

Proof. If N is a vector of independent DL(α) distributed
variables, we know that for all s ∈ Zk

α

(cid:6)z−z(cid:2)(cid:6)

1 ≤ Pr(z + N = s)
Pr(z(cid:3) + N = s)

≤ α

−(cid:6)z−z(cid:2)(cid:6)

1.

Let D(cid:3) be a data set that diﬀers from D in one
record. By taking z = f (D), z(cid:3) = f (D(cid:3)) and α =
exp(−(cid:2)/LSf (D)), we get

exp(−(cid:2)) ≤ Pr(f (D) + N = s)
Pr(f (D(cid:3)) + N = s)

≤ exp((cid:2)).

VI. Evaluation

In this section, we compare the accuracy obtained with
the standard DP deﬁnition and with iDP for basic noise
addition mechanisms. In particular, we compare calibra-
tion to the global sensitivity (for DP), to the smooth
sensitivity (for DP), and to the local sensitivity (for iDP).
Noise addition mechanisms provide simple ways to make
an output compliant with DP (or iDP) and are agnostic to
the speciﬁc data uses; hence, using standard noise addition
mechanisms is relevant to make a general comparison
between DP and iDP.

Since the accuracy we obtain from standard DP cali-
brated to the smooth sensitivity and from iDP calibrated
to the local sensitivity depends on the actual data set, a
purely empirical evaluation carried out on some sample
data sets would only provide a partial picture. Therefore,
we give both an empirical analysis based on simulations
and a theoretical analysis. We will see that, even in the
worst case, iDP oﬀers a signiﬁcant improvement on the
accuracy of the responses.

A. Median

The median is a measure of central tendency. Compared
to the arithmetic mean, the median is quite stable, because
it is relatively insensitive to outliers. Since statistical
queries like the median represent properties of the data set
rather than properties of a speciﬁc individual, we could
expect DP to provide accurate results for such queries.
However, the fact that standard DP guarantees must hold
for any pair of neighbor data sets forces noise addition

mechanisms to signiﬁcantly degrade accuracy. Instead,
iDP allows adjusting the amount of protection to each
speciﬁc data set; thus, most of the times,
iDP yields
reasonably high accuracy, as we discuss below.

1) Diﬀerential privacy via calibration to the global sen-
sitivity: Let the values x1, · · · , xn, with n = 2m + 1,
be instances of an attribute with domain Dom(A). Con-
in D1 values
sider data sets D1 and D2 such that:
x1, . . . , xm are equal to the minimum of Dom(A), and val-
ues xm+1, . . . , xn are equal to the maximum of Dom(A);
and in D2 values x1, . . . , xm−1 are equal to the minimum of
Dom(A), and values xm, . . . , xn are equal to the maximum
of Dom(A). As a result, the median xm in D1 is the
minimum of Dom(A), and the median xm in D2 is the
maximum of Dom(A); thus, the global sensitivity for the
median is

Δ(median) = max(Dom(A)) − min(Dom(A)).

Having a global sensitivity equal to the domain size
severely compromises the accuracy of diﬀerentially private
estimations of the median via calibration to the global
sensitivity. The situation becomes even worse when the
domain of the attribute is not naturally bounded (e.g.
incomes are unbounded, even if the income of most in-
dividuals falls within a given window); in such cases, it
may not even be possible to compute the global sensitivity
without artiﬁcially restricting the values to a ﬁxed interval.
2) Diﬀerential privacy via calibration to the smooth
sensitivity: Calibration to the smooth sensitivity tries to
avoid the shortcomings of global sensitivity by adjusting
the amount of noise to each data set. From [11], the smooth
sensitivity for the median is

Smedian,(cid:3)(D) =
= max

k=0,...,n

{exp(−k(cid:2)) max

{xm+t − xm+t−k−1}}.

0≤t≤k+1

Calibration to the smooth sensitivity is eﬀective at reduc-
ing the amount of noise that is added to most data sets.
However, it still has some drawbacks:

• Computing the smooth sensitivity can be complex. In
particular, the formula for the smooth sensitivity of
the median has time complexity O(n2), which may
not be feasible for large data sets.

• Similarly to the global sensitivity, the smooth sen-
sitivity can only be computed when Dom(A) is
bounded.

• The mechanisms used to attain DP are more complex
than with global sensitivity, and the eligible noise
distributions are heavy-tailed (rather than the expo-
nentially decreasing distributions used in calibration
to the global sensitivity).

3) iDP (via calibration to the local sensitivity): iDP also
allows the response mechanism to be independently ad-
justed to each data set. iDP can be reached via calibration
to the local sensitivity (see Section V). For the median, the
local sensitivity is:

LSmedian(D) = max{xm − xm−1, xm+1 − xm}.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

9

Table I
95% confidence intervals of the noise distributions required
by (cid:2)-DP via calibration to the smooth sensitivity (for
different values of the noise parameter γ) and (cid:2)-iDP via
calibration to the local sensitivity (with a Laplace
distribution), where the query is the median, (cid:2) = 1 and
sensitivities are 1.

Privacy model
95% interval

(cid:2)-iDP
[-3,3]

(cid:2)-DP γ = 2
[-101.7,101.7]

(cid:2)-DP γ = 3
[-34.2,34.2]

These results show that the use of calibration to the
smooth sensitivity may be incompatible with an accurate
and (cid:2)-diﬀerentially private approximation for the median.
Although the smooth sensitivity is deﬁnitely better than
the global sensitivity for noise calibration, at 95% conﬁ-
dence the amount of noise can be as large as 101 times the
smooth sensitivity. Whether this is acceptable depends on
the data set. Only if the smooth sensitivity is very small
compared to the attribute domain, accuracy may still be
acceptable. In contrast, the accuracy provided by iDP is
much better: at 95% conﬁdence, the noise is at most 3
times the local sensitivity.

Finally, we evaluate the accuracy of the median by
computing, for a collection of data sets, the average ab-
solute error incurred; we use the absolute error because
the relative error may be misleading when the median is
close to 0. We consider data sets with three diﬀerent sizes
(10, 100, and 1000) whose records are drawn from U [0, 1]
(the uniform distribution in [0, 1]), N (0, 1) (the normal
distribution with mean 0 and variance 1) and Exp(1) (the
exponential distribution with rate 1).

For the smooth sensitivity to be ﬁnite, the domain of the
records must be bounded. Thus, to be able to compute the
smooth sensitivity in the N (0, 1) and the Exp(1) cases, we
have to restrict the domain of the data. This is done by
bounding the domain to the range between the minimum
and the maximum values in the data set. Figure 2 shows
the average absolute error for each of the data sets. We
include the results obtained for DP by adjusting the noise
to the smooth sensitivity with γ = 3, and for iDP by
adjusting a Laplace noise to the local sensitivity. We
took γ = 3 as the best performing value after evaluating
several other values of γ; speciﬁcally, smaller values led to
too much probability mass in the tails, whereas greater
values introduced greater correction factors to the noise
distribution that oﬀset the gain produced by having the
probability mass closer to zero. By looking at the ﬁgure, we
notice that, regardless of the underlying data distribution
and the data set size, the results are signiﬁcantly better
for iDP.

B. Maximum

Rather than comparing the accuracy obtained with
diﬀerent mechanisms in a baseline scenario, this example
focuses on the maximum value of a data set and shows how
iDP is useful to avoid calibrating the noise to a domain-
dependent (and hence too large) sensitivity.

Figure 1. Comparison of the noise distributions required by (cid:2)-DP via
calibration to the smooth sensitivity (for γ = 2 and γ = 3, where γ is
the noise parameter) and (cid:2)-iDP via calibration to the local sensitivity
(with a Laplace distribution), where the query is the median, (cid:2) = 1
and sensitivities are 1.

iDP via calibration to the local sensitivity oﬀers the fol-
lowing advantages compared to calibration to the smooth
sensitivity:

• The computation of the local sensitivity is less com-

plex.

• The local sensitivity is lower than the smooth sensi-

tivity.

• The local sensitivity does not depend on the size of
the domain. It only depends on xm−1, xm and xm+1.
• The mechanism used to attain iDP is simpler and the
noise distributions can be selected to be exponentially
decreasing (e.g. the Laplace distribution).

4) Experimental comparison between DP with smooth
sensitivity and iDP: After the previous theoretical com-
parison, we now turn to experimental evaluation of the ac-
curacy for the median. Due to the poor accuracy provided
by calibration to the global sensitivity, the comparison
focuses on DP via calibration to the smooth sensitivity
and iDP via calibration to the local sensitivity.

For iDP, we have used the mechanism proposed in
Proposition 5. For standard DP, we have used a noise N
having a density of the form

fN (x) ∝

1
1 + |x|γ ,

where γ > 1. This noise distribution is ( (cid:3)
to achieve DP calibrated to the smooth sensitivity [11].

γ )-admissible

4γ , (cid:3)

In the comparison, we take (cid:2) = 1 and we assume that
the local sensitivity equals the smooth sensitivity. Since
i) noise in DP is proportional to the smooth sensitivity,
ii) noise in iDP is proportional to the local sensitivity,
and iii) the latter sensitivity is never greater than the
former, both sensitivities being equal is the worst case
for iDP. Speciﬁcally, we take both sensitivities equal to
1. Figure 1 shows the distribution of the noise in the
response. Even in the most favorable case for the smooth
sensitivity, the accuracy obtained with iDP is much better.
The reason is that, to enforce (cid:2)-DP via calibration to the
smooth sensitivity, the noise distribution must be heavy-
tailed. Table I shows 95%-conﬁdence intervals for these
noise distributions.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

10

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

30

25

20

15

10

5

30

25

20

15

10

5

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.08

0.06

0.04

0.02

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

DP Γ(cid:3)3

iDP

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

0.6

0.7

0.8

0.9

1.0

Figure 2. Absolute error in the median (y-axis) for (cid:2) in the range [0.5, 1] (x-axis) and several data sets. Data sets have been drawn from
a speciﬁc distribution: U [0, 1] (top row graphs), N (0, 1) (middle row graphs) and Exp(1) (bottom row graphs). Data set sizes are 10 (left
column graphs), 100 (middle column graphs), and 1000 (right column graphs). Especially in the left column graphs, it can be seen that
strict DP yields completely oﬀ-range median values for all considered (cid:2), as the median of a U [0, 1] must be within [0, 1], and, with very great
probability, the median of a N (0, 1) is within [−3, 3] and the median of an Exp(1) is within [0, 5]. Clearly, iDP is much more utility-preserving.

1) Diﬀerential privacy via calibration to the global sen-
sitivity: The global sensitivity of the maximum of a set of
values equals the length of the domain. Let us consider
data sets D1 and D2 such that: in D1, all the values
x1, . . . , xn are equal to the minimum of Dom(A), and in
D2 the values x1, . . . , xn−1 are equal to the minimum of
Dom(A), and the value xn is equal to the maximum of
Dom(A). Thus, the global sensitivity for the maximum is

Δ(maximum) = max(Dom(A)) − min(Dom(A)).

Like in the case of the median, having a global sensitivity
equal to the domain size severely degrades the accuracy
of diﬀerentially private estimations of the maximum via
calibration to the global sensitivity. Also, if the domain
is unbounded, the global sensitivity cannot even be com-
puted.

2) Diﬀerential privacy via calibration to the smooth
sensitivity: The smooth sensitivity for the maximum can
be computed as

Smaximum,(cid:3)(D) =

{exp(−k(cid:2))(max(Dom(A)) − xn−k),

max
k=0,...,n
exp(−k(cid:2))(xn − xn−k−1)}.

fact, except for the worst-case data sets described when
computing the global sensitivity, the smooth sensitivity is
smaller. However, the smooth sensitivity does not avoid
the dependence on the domain of the attribute.

3) iDP (via calibration to the local sensitivity): The

local sensitivity of the maximum can be computed as

LSmaximum(D) = max{max(Dom(A)) − xn, xn − xn−1}.

While iDP oﬀers the expected advantages (the local sen-
sitivity is smaller than the smooth sensitivity, and we can
use exponentially decreasing noise distributions), the local
sensitivity still depends on the domain of the attribute,
which can be unbounded. However, iDP allows an easy
workaround to solve this issue: rather than querying for
the maximum value, we can query for the second maxi-
mum. Unless there is a single record that has a signiﬁcantly
greater value (as in the worst-case data set described
above), querying for the second maximum should be a
reasonably good approximation; otherwise, the approxi-
mation will be very inexact, but, anyway, the accuracy
when querying for the maximum would also be poor. The
advantage of querying for the second maximum is that the
local sensitivity does not depend on the domain anymore:

Calibration to the smooth sensitivity is eﬀective to reduce
the amount of noise that is added to most data sets. In

LS2−max(D) = max{xn − xn−1, xn−1 − xn−2}.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

11

It is important to note that this workaround to avoid
having a sensitivity that depends on the domain attribute
is not possible with calibration to the smooth sensitivity.

C. Range queries

Given a data set D and a range R, a range query counts

the number of records of D that are contained in R:

fR(D) = |{x ∈ D : x ∈ R}| .

Range queries behave well under DP: their sensitivity is
1. This low sensitivity is preserved in histogram queries (a
collection of range queries over disjoint ranges).

The mechanisms to attain (cid:2)-iDP described in Sec-
tions V-A and V-B were based on calibrating the noise
to the local sensitivity at D. As the local sensitivity of
fR at any D is 1, which is equal to the global sensitivity,
the use of these mechanisms does not provide improved
accuracy w.r.t. DP.

VII. Conclusions and future work

This work formalizes and discusses individual diﬀeren-
tial privacy, an alternative to the standard formulation
of DP that reduces the noise to be added to the query
results and, thus, better preserves their accuracy/utility.
While, at ﬁrst sight, individual diﬀerential privacy may
look like another relaxation of DP, it exactly maintains
the intuitive disclosure limitation guarantee of DP: the
presence or absence of one individual
in the data set
must be unnoticeable from the query result. Improving
the accuracy of the results is possible because individual
diﬀerential privacy exploits the fact that the actual data
set is known by the trusted data controller at the time of
answering queries. By focusing only on indistinguishability
between the actual data set and its neighbor data sets, the
sensitivity of the query and, and hence, the magnitude of
noise to be added signiﬁcantly decrease.

We have also proposed several mechanisms to attain in-
dividual diﬀerential privacy. First, we have explained that
any mechanism providing (cid:2)-DP also provides (cid:2)-individual
diﬀerential privacy. However, direct use of (cid:2)-diﬀerentially
private mechanisms fails to reap the potential accuracy
improvements of individual diﬀerential privacy. Next, we
have shown that, for numerical queries, (cid:2)-iDP can be
attained by adjusting the noise to the local sensitivity,
which results in substantial accuracy gains:

• Since the local sensitivity is normally signiﬁcantly
smaller than the global sensitivity employed by stan-
dard DP, iDP leads to substantially better accuracy.
• Even if noise is calibrated to the smooth sensitivity,
iDP still oﬀers much better accuracy and this for two
reasons: (i) the local sensitivity is smaller than the
smooth sensitivity (although the diﬀerence is not as
important as with respect to the global sensitivity);
(ii) exponentially decreasing random noise can be
used with local sensitivity (in contrast with the heavy-
tailed noises that are to be employed with calibration
to the smooth sensitivity).

In addition to improved accuracy, iDP via local sensitivity
is less dependent on the attribute domain (which may be
large or even unbounded); what is more, in case the local
sensitivity depends on the domain, workarounds can be
found.

In our opinion, the signiﬁcant accuracy/utility gains
brought by (cid:2)-iDP, together with its strong privacy guar-
antee (the same intuitive privacy guarantee of (cid:2)-DP for
individuals), pave the way to using (cid:2)-iDP where standard
DP is not viable. As future work, we plan to study the
performance of iDP for other common queries in the
interactive scenario. We also plan to design mechanisms,
other than noise addition, that may oﬀer improved utility
for speciﬁc tasks. Speciﬁcally, we aim at mechanisms for
non-numerical discrete functions that leverage the ad-
vantages of iDP. Finally, we also plan to apply (cid:2)-iDP
to non-interactive data releases. Although such releases
provide more ﬂexibility regarding data uses, they have
been traditionally neglected by researchers because of the
enormous distortion that making them diﬀerentially pri-
vate according to the standard deﬁnition would entail [18].

Acknowledgments and disclaimer

We thank Frank McSherry and Daniel Kifer for their
comments and suggestions on individual diﬀerential pri-
vacy. This work was supported by the European Com-
mission (projects H2020-644024 “CLARUS” and H2020-
700540 “CANVAS”), by the Spanish Government (projects
TIN2014-57364-C2-1/2-R “SmartGlacis”, TIN2016-80250-
R “Sec-MCloud” and TIN2015-70054-REDC) and by the
Government of Catalonia under grant 2014 SGR 537.
Josep Domingo-Ferrer is partially supported as an ICREA-
Acadèmia researcher by the Government of Catalonia. The
opinions expressed in this paper are the authors’ own and
do not necessarily reﬂect the views of UNESCO. The ﬁrst
and second authors thank the Isaac Newton Institute for
Mathematical Sciences at the University of Cambridge for
support and hospitality during the “Data Linkage and
Anonymisation” programme (funded by EPSRC Grant
Number EP/K032208/1), when work on this paper was
completed and discussed.

References

[1] A. Hundepool, J. Domingo-Ferrer, L. Franconi, S. Giessing,
E. Schulte-Nordholt, K. Spicer, and P. de Wolf, Statistical
disclosure control. Wiley, 2012.
[2] J. Domingo-Ferrer, D. Sanchez,

and J. Soria-Comas,
Database Anonymization: Privacy Models, Data Utility,
and Microaggregation-Based Inter-Model Connections. Morgan
& Claypool, 2016.

[3] C. Dwork, “Diﬀerential privacy,” in Automata, Languages and

Programming, Springer, 2006, pp. 1–12.

[4] P. Samarati, “Protecting respondents’ identities in microdata
release,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineer-
ing, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 1010–1027, Nov. 2001.

[5] A. Machanavajjhala, D. Kifer, J. Gehrke, and M. Venkita-
subramaniam, “l-diversity: privacy beyond k-anonymity,” ACM
Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data, vol. 1, no. 1,
Mar. 2007.

[6] N. Li, T. Li, and S. Venkatasubramanian, “t-closeness: privacy
beyond k-anonymity and l-diversity,” in ICDE, R. Chirkova,
A. Dogac, M. T. Özsu, and T. K. Sellis, Eds.
IEEE, 2007,
pp. 106–115.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016

12

[7] J. Soria-Comas and J. Domingo-Ferrer, “Probabilistic k-
anonymity through microaggregation and data swapping,” in
FUZZ-IEEE 2012, IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy
Systems, Brisbane, Australia, IEEE, pp. 1-8.

[8] C. Dwork, F. McSherry, K. Nissim, and A. D. Smith, “Calibrat-
ing noise to sensitivity in private data analysis,” in Theory of
Cryptography, Third Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC
2006, New York, NY, USA, March 4-7, 2006, pp. 265–284.
[9] J. Soria-Comas and J. Domingo-Ferrer, “Optimal data-
independent noise for diﬀerential privacy.” Information Sci-
ences, vol. 250, pp. 200–214, 2013.

[10] S. Inusah and T. J. Kozubowski, “A discrete analogue of the
Laplace distribution,” Journal of Statistical Planning and In-
ference, vol. 136, no. 3, pp. 1090–1102, 2006.

[11] K. Nissim, S. Raskhodnikova, and A. Smith, “Smooth sensitivity
and sampling in private data analysis,” in Proceedings of the
39th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC
’07. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2007, pp. 75–84.

[12] J. Bambauer, K. Muralidhar, and R. Sarathy, “Fool’s gold: an
illustrated critique of diﬀerential privacy,” Vanderbilt Journal of
Entertainment & Technology Law, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 701–755,
Summer 2014.

[13] R. Sarathy and K. Muralidhar, “Evaluating Laplace noise addi-
tion to satisfy diﬀerential privacy for numeric data,” Transac-
tions on Data Privacy, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1–17, Apr. 2011.
[14] A. Friedman and A. Schuster, “Data mining with diﬀerential pri-
vacy,” in Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD
’10. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2010, pp. 493–502.

[15] P. Mohan, A. Thakurta, E. Shi, D. Song, and D. Culler, “GUPT:
privacy preserving data analysis made easy,” in Proceedings of
the 2012 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Manage-
ment of Data, 2012, pp. 349–360.

[16] M. Fredrikson, E. Lantz, S. Jha, S. Lin, D. Page, and T. Risten-
part, “Privacy in pharmacogenetics: an end-to-end case study
of personalized warfarin dosing,” in Proceedings of the 23rd
USENIX Security Symposium, San Diego CA, EUA, 2014, pp.
17–32.

[17] J. Soria-Comas,

J. Domingo-Ferrer, D. Sánchez,

and
S. Martínez, “Improving the utility of diﬀerentially private
data releases via k-anonymity,” in 12th IEEE International
Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and
Communications (TrustCom), July 2013, pp. 372–379.

[18] J. Soria-Comas,

J. Domingo-Ferrer, D. Sánchez,

and
S. Martínez, “Enhancing data utility in diﬀerential privacy via
microaggregation-based k-anonymity,” The VLDB Journal,
vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 771–794, Oct. 2014.

[19] D. Sánchez, J. Domingo-Ferrer, S. Martínez, and J. Soria-
Comas, “Utility-preserving diﬀerentially private data releases
via individual ranking microaggregation,” Information Fusion,
vol. 30, pp. 1 – 14, 2016.

[20] J. Zhang, G. Cormode, C. M. Procopiuc, D. Srivastava, and
X. Xiao, “Privbayes: private data release via Bayesian net-
works,” in Proceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGMOD International
Conference on Management of Data, SIGMOD ’14. New York,
NY, USA: ACM, 2014, pp. 1423–1434.

[21] J. Xu, Z. Zhang, X. Xiao, Y. Yang, and G. Yu, “Diﬀeren-
tially private histogram publication,” in Proceedings of the 28th
IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, ICDE
’12. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society, 2012, pp. 32–
43.

[22] Y. Xiao, L. Xiong, and C. Yuan, “Diﬀerentially private data
release through multidimensional partitioning,” in Secure Data
Management, Springer, 2010, pp. 150–168.

[23] G. Jagannathan, K. Pillaipakkamnatt, and R. N. Wright, “A
practical diﬀerentially private random decision tree classiﬁer,”
Transactions on Data Privacy, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 273–295, Apr.
2012.

[24] C. Dwork, K. Kenthapadi, F. McSherry, I. Mironov, and
M. Naor, “Our data, ourselves: privacy via distributed noise
generation,” in Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2006,
Springer, 2006, pp. 486–503.

[25] A. Machanavajjhala, D. Kifer, J. Abowd, J. Gehrke, and L. Vil-
huber, “Privacy: theory meets practice on the map,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 24th IEEE International Conference on Data
Engineering (ICDE 2008), 2008, pp. 277–286.

[26] A. Machanavajjhala and D. Kiefer, “Designing statistical pri-
vacy for your data,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 58, no. 3,
pp. 58–67, 2015.

[27] C. Dwork and G. N. Rothblum, “Concentrated diﬀerential
privacy,” CoRR, vol. abs/1603.01887, 2016. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01887

[28] D. Kifer and B.-R. Lin, “Towards an axiomatization of
statistical privacy and utility,” in Proceedings of the 29th
ACM SIGMOD-SIGACT-SIGART Symposium on Principles
of Database Systems, PODS ’10. New York, NY, USA: ACM,
2010, pp. 147-158.

Jordi Soria-Comas is a postdoctoral re-
searcher at Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Tar-
ragona, Catalonia. He received an MSc in com-
puter security (2011) and a PhD in computer
science (2013) from Universitat Rovira i Vir-
gili. He also holds an MSc in ﬁnance from the
Autonomous University of Barcelona (2004)
and a BSc in mathematics from the University
of Barcelona (2003). His research interests are
in data privacy and security.

Josep Domingo-Ferrer (Fellow, IEEE) is
a distinguished professor of computer science
and an ICREA-Acadèmia researcher at Uni-
versitat Rovira i Virgili, Tarragona, Catalonia,
where he holds the UNESCO Chair in Data
Privacy. He received the MSc and PhD degrees
in computer science from the Autonomous
University of Barcelona in 1988 and 1991,
respectively. He also holds an MSc degree in
mathematics. His research interests are in data
privacy, data security and cryptographic pro-

David Sánchez is an associate professor of
computer science at Universitat Rovira i Vir-
gili, Tarragona, Catalonia. He received a PhD
in computer science (2008) from the Technical
University of Catalonia. He also holds a BSc
and an MSc in computer engineering from Uni-
versitat Rovira i Virgili. His research interests
are in data semantics and data privacy.

tocols.

David Megías (Member, IEEE) received
a PhD in computer science from the Au-
tonomous University of Barcelona (2000),
where he was an assistant lecturer from 1994 to
2001. Since 2001, he is a tenured associate pro-
fessor with Universitat Oberta de Catalunya
(UOC). He currently serves as the director of
the Internet Interdisciplinary Institute (IN3)
of UOC. His current research interests include
security and privacy in multimedia content
distribution, steganography, steganalysis and

information security and privacy.

