Preemptive Information Extraction using Unrestricted Relation Discovery
Yusuke Shinyama Satoshi Sekine
New York University
715, Broadway, 7th Floor
New York, NY, 10003
{yusuke,sekine}@cs.nyu.edu

Abstract
We are trying to extend the boundary of
Information Extraction (IE) systems. Ex-
isting IE systems require a lot of time and
human effort to tune for a new scenario.
Preemptive Information Extraction is an
attempt to automatically create all feasible
IE systems in advance without human in-
tervention. We propose a technique called
Unrestricted Relation Discovery that dis-
covers all possible relations from texts and
presents them as tables. We present a pre-
liminary system that obtains reasonably
good results.
1 Background
Every day, a large number of news articles are cre-

cles and adjust its patterns, either manually or semi-
automatically. There is a bit of a dangerous pitfall
here. First, it is hard to estimate how good the sys-
tem can be after months of work. Furthermore, you
might not know if the task is even doable in the ﬁrst
place. Knowing what kind of information is easily
obtained in advance would help reduce this risk.
An IE task can be deﬁned as ﬁnding a relation
among several entities involved in a certain type of
event. For example, in the MUC-6 management
succession scenario, one seeks a relation between
COMPANY, PERSON and POST involved with hir-
ing/ﬁring events. For each row of an extracted ta-
ble, you can always read it as “COMPANY hired
(or ﬁred) PERSON for POST.” The relation between
these entities is retained throughout the table. There
are many existing works on obtaining extraction pat-
terns for pre-deﬁned relations (Riloff, 1996; Yangar-
ber et al., 2000; Agichtein and Gravano, 2000; Sudo

ated and reported, many of which are unique. But et al., 2003).

certain types of events, such as hurricanes or mur-
ders, are reported again and again throughout a year.
The goal of Information Extraction, or IE, is to re-
trieve a certain type of news event from past articles
and present the events as a table whose columns are
ﬁlled with a name of a person or company, accord-
ing to its role in the event. However, existing IE
techniques require a lot of human labor. First, you
have to specify the type of information you want and
collect articles that include this information. Then,
you have to analyze the articles and manually craft
a set of patterns to capture these events. Most exist-
ing IE research focuses on reducing this burden by
helping people create such patterns. But each time
you want to extract a different kind of information,

Unrestricted Relation Discovery is a technique to
automatically discover such relations that repeatedly
appear in a corpus and present them as a table, with
absolutely no human intervention. Unlike most ex-
isting IE research, a user does not specify the type
of articles or information wanted. Instead, a system
tries to ﬁnd all the kinds of relations that are reported
multiple times and can be reported in tabular form.
This technique will open up the possibility of try-
ing new IE scenarios. Furthermore, the system itself
can be used as an IE system, since an obtained re-
lation is already presented as a table. If this system
works to a certain extent, tuning an IE system be-
comes a search problem: all the tables are already
built “preemptively.” A user only needs to search

you need to repeat the whole process: specify arti- for a relevant table.Article dump be-hit

2005-09-23 Katrina
2005-10-02 Longwang
2005-11-20 Gamma

New Orleans
Taiwan
Florida

. . .Katrina. . .New Orleans. . .
headed

was-hit

threatened has-been-evacuated

Keywords: storm, evacuate, coast, rain, hurricane

is-category-5-residents

... ...

Table 1: Sample discovered relation.

Basic patternsBasic patterns

article Afor entity "Katrina"
for entity "New Orleans"

Figure 1: Obtaining basic patterns.

We implemented a preliminary
technique and obtained
mance. Table 1 is a sample
tracted as a table by our system.
table show article dates, names
places they affected respectively.
table and its keywords were
ically.
2 Basic Idea

system for this
reasonably good perfor-
relation that was ex-
The columns of the
of hurricanes and the
The headers of the
also extracted automat-

1.
. . .Katrina. . .New Orleans. . .
headed
...
article A
"stroke"
1.

2.
was-hit
threatened has-been-evacuated
is-category-5-residents
...
Common PatternCommon Pattern
"was-hit"
2.

. . .Longwang. . .Taiwan. . .

In Unrestricted Relation
process (i.e. creating new
as a clustering task. The key
of articles that contain entities
tion to each other in such a way
a table where the entities that
placed in the same column.
Suppose that there are two
and both report hurricane-related
contains two entities “Katrina”
and article B contains
These entities are recognized
(NE) tagger. We want to
them. First, we introduce a
pattern” to form a relation.
part of the text that is
an entity. Some examples are
residents”. Figure 1 shows
connected to the entities
leans” in article A. Similarly,
patterns for article B. Now,
ties “Katrina” and “Longwang”
tern “headed” in common. In
these two entities to each other.
is also a common basic pattern
“New Orleans” and “Taiwan”.
sets of entities that can be
at the same time. What does
that both entity sets (“Katrina”-“New
“Longwang”-“Taiwan”) represent
that has something in common:

Discovery, the discovery
tables) can be formulated
idea is to cluster a set
bearing a similar rela-
that we can construct
play the same role are
articles A and B,
news. Article A
and “New Orleans”,
“Longwang” and “Taiwan”.
by a Named Entity
discover a relation among
notion called “basic
A basic pattern is a
syntactically connected to
“X is hit” or “Y’s
several basic patterns
“Katrina” and “New Or-
we obtain the basic
in Figure 2, both enti-
have the basic pat-
this case, we connect
Furthermore, there
“was-hit” shared by
Now, we found two
placed in correspondence
this mean? We can infer
Orleans” and
a certain relation
a hurricane name

hit
headed
swirling
...
article B
Obtained
Table
Figure 2: Finding a similar
and the place it affected. By
allel correspondences between
estimate the similarity of their
Generally, in a clustering
by ﬁnding similar pairs. After
cles that have a similar relation,
into the same cluster. In this
by using their basic patterns
each basic pattern is still
that we can extract the name
sider a basic pattern to represent
“role” of its entity. In this
had “headed” as a basic pattern
the entities that had “was-hit”
the places it affected. By
can align the entities into the
that represents a certain role
this example, we create a
each column represents the
each row represents a different
the bottom of Figure 2.
We can extend this table by

's-coast
was-pounded
was-hit
...
article AKatrinaNew Orleans
article BLongwangTaiwan
relation from two articles.
ﬁnding multiple par-
two articles, we can
relations.
task, one groups items
ﬁnding a pair of arti-
we can bring them
case, we cluster articles
as features. However,
connected to its entity so
from it. We can con-
something like the
example, the entities that
are hurricanes, and
as a basic pattern are
using basic patterns, we
corresponding column
in the relation. From
two-by-two table, where
roles of the entities, and
article, as shown in
ﬁnding another article

1. 2.in the same manner. In this way, we gradually extend
a table while retaining a relation among its columns.
In this example, the obtained table is just what an IE
system (whose task is to ﬁnd a hurricane name and
the affected place) would create.
However, these articles might also include other
things, which could represent different relations. For
example, the governments might call for help or
some casualties might have been reported. To ob-
tain such relations, we need to choose different en-
tities from the articles. Several existing works have
tried to extract a certain type of relation by manu-
ally choosing different pairs of entities (Brin, 1998;
Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). Hasegawa et al.
(2004) tried to extract multiple relations by choos-
ing entity types. We assume that we can ﬁnd such
relations by trying all possible combinations from
a set of entities we have chosen in advance; some
combinations might represent a hurricane and gov-

enough, because the number of sentences is rather
small in comparison to the variation of expressions.
So having two articles that have multiple basic pat-
terns in common is very unlikely. We extend the
number of articles for obtaining basic patterns by
using a cluster of comparable articles that report the
same event instead of a single article. We call this
cluster of articles a “basic cluster.” Using basic clus-
ters instead of single articles also helps to increase
the redundancy of data. We can give more conﬁ-
dence to repeated basic patterns.
Note that the notion of “basic cluster” is different
from the clusters used for creating tables explained
above. In the following sections, a cluster for creat-
ing a table is called a “metacluster,” because this is
a cluster of basic clusters. A basic cluster consists
of a set of articles that report the same event which
happens at a certain time, and a metacluster consists
of a set of events that contain the same relation over

ernment relation, and others might represent a place a certain period.

and its casualties. To ensure that an article can have
several different relations, we let each article belong
to several different clusters.
In a real-world situation, only using basic patterns
sometimes gives undesired results. For example,
“(President) Bush ﬂew to Texas” and “(Hurricane)
Katrina ﬂew to New Orleans” both have a basic pat-
tern “flew to” in common, so “Bush” and “Kat-
rina” would be put into the same column. But we
want to separate them in different tables. To allevi-
ate this problem, we put an additional restriction on
clustering. We use a bag-of-words approach to dis-
criminate two articles: if the word-based similarity
between two articles is too small, we do not bring
them together into the same cluster (i.e. table). We
exclude names from the similarity calculation at this
stage because we want to link articles about the same
type of event, not the same instance. In addition, we
use the frequency of each basic pattern to compute
the similarity of relations, since basic patterns like
“say” or “have” appear in almost every article and it
is dangerous to rely on such expressions.
Increasing Basic Patterns
In the above explanation, we have assumed that we
can obtain enough basic patterns from an article.
However, the actual number of basic patterns that
one can ﬁnd from a single article is usually not

We try to increase the number of articles in a basic
cluster by looking at multiple news sources simulta-
neously. We use a clustering algorithm that uses a
vector-space-model to obtain basic clusters. Then
we apply cross-document coreference resolution to
connect entities of different articles within a basic
cluster. This way, we can increase the number of ba-
sic patterns connected to each entity. Also, it allows
us to give a weight to entities. We calculate their
weights using the number of occurrences within a
cluster and their position within an article. These
entities are used to obtain basic patterns later.
We also use a parser and tree normalizer to gen-
erate basic patterns. The format of basic patterns
is crucial to performance. We think a basic pat-
tern should be somewhat speciﬁc, since each pat-
tern should capture an entity with some relevant con-
text. But at the same time a basic pattern should
be general enough to reduce data sparseness. We
choose a predicate-argument structure as a natural
solution for this problem. Compared to traditional
constituent trees, a predicate-argument structure is
a higher-level representation of sentences that has
gained wide acceptance from the natural language
community recently. In this paper we used a logical
feature structure called GLARF proposed by Mey-
ers et al. (2001a). A GLARF converter takes a syn-
tactic tree as an input and augments it with several's ...Newspapers

SUFFIX

Louisiana

Web

T-POS Crawling

Katrina coast Basic

Clustering

SBJ OBJ

...Basic

hit Clusters

Figure 3: GLARF structure of the sentence ﬁ
Katrina

Parsing

hit Louisiana's coast.
ﬂ Coreference

Resolution

GLARFing

features. Figure 3 shows a sample GLARF structure

obtained from the sentence ﬁ
Katrina hit Louisiana's

coast.
ﬂ We used GLARF for two reasons: 
Basic Pattern
rst,

Generation

unlike traditional constituent parsers, 
Basic PatternsGLARF has

an ability to regularize several linguistic phenom-

ena such as participial constructions and coordina-
Metaclustering

tion. This allows us to handle this syntactic variety

in a uniform way. Second, an output structure can
Metaclusters

(Tables)

be easily converted into a directed graph that rep-

resents the relationship between each word, without
Figure 4: System overview.

losing signicant information from the original sen-

tence. Compared to an ordinary constituent tree, it is

cles that talk about exactly the same news and form

easier to extract syntactic relationships. In the next

a basic cluster.

section, we discuss how we used this structure to

We eliminate stop words and stem all the other

generate basic patterns.

words, then compute the similarity between two ar-

ticles by using a bag-of-words approach. In news

3 Implementation

articles, a sentence that appears in the beginning of

The overall process to generate basic patterns and
an article is usually more important than the others.

discover relations from unannotated news articles is
So we preserved the word order to take into account

shown in Figure 4. Theoretically this could be a
the location of each sentence. First we computed a

straight pipeline, but due to the nature of the im-
word vector from each article:

plementation we process some stages separately and
X i

combine them in the later stage. 
Vw(A) =IDF(w)In the following
exp(¡ )

avgwords

subsection, we explain each component.
i2POS(w;A)

where
Vw(A)isavectorelementofword
winarticle

3.1 Web Crawling and Basic Clustering
A,IDF(w)is the inverse document frequency of

First of all, we need a lot of news articles from mul-
wordw, andPOS(w;A)is a list of
w's positions

tiple news sources. We created a simple web crawler
in the article.
avgwords
is the average number of

texts from about 90% of the pages from each news
site.

that extract the main texts from web pages. We ob-
words for all articles. Then we calculated the cosine
served that the crawler can correctly take the main
value of each pair of vectors:
Sim(A1;A2) = cos(
V(A1)¢V(A2))
We ran the crawler every day on several news

sites. Then we applied a simple clustering algorithm
We computed the similarity of all possible pairs of

to the obtained articles in order to nd a set of arti-
articles from the same day, and selected the pairswhose similarity exceeded a certain threshold (0.65 's

in this experiment) to form a basic cluster.

3.2 Parsing and GLARFing
After getting a set of basic clusters, we pass them
to an existing statistical parser (Charniak, 2000) and
rule-based tree normalizer to obtain a GLARF struc-

Louisiana
T-POS
GPE+T-POS:coast
Katrina coast

ture for each sentence in every article. The current SBJ OBJ

PER+SBJ:hit-OBJ:coast

implementation of a GLARF converter gives about hit

75% F-score using parser output. For the details of
GLARF representation and its conversion, see Mey-
ers et al. (2001b).
3.3 NE Tagging and Coreference Resolution
In parallel with parsing and GLARFing, we also ap-
ply NE tagging and coreference resolution for each
article in a basic cluster. We used an HMM-based
NE tagger whose performance is about 85% in F-
score. This NE tagger produces ACE-type Named
Entities 1: PERSON, ORGANIZATION, GPE, LO-
CATION and FACILITY 2. After applying single-
document coreference resolution for each article, we
connect the entities among different articles in the
same basic cluster to obtain cross-document coref-
erence entities with simple string matching.
3.4 Basic Pattern Generation
After getting a GLARF structure for each sentence
and a set of documents whose entities are tagged
and connected to each other, we merge the two out-
puts and create a big network of GLARF structures
whose nodes are interconnected across different sen-
tences/articles. Now we can generate basic patterns
for each entity. First, we compute the weight for
each cross-document entityE in a certain basic clus-
ter as follows:

PER+SBJ:hit
Figure 5: Basic patterns obtained from the sentence
“Katrina hit Louisiana’s coast.”
of the sentence where entitye ﬁrst appeared, respec-
tively. C is a constant value which was0.5 in this ex-
periment. To reduce combinatorial complexity, we
took only the ﬁve most highly weighted entities from
each basic cluster to generate basic patterns. We ob-
served these ﬁve entities can cover major relations
that are reported in a basic cluster.
Next, we obtain basic patterns from the GLARF
structures. We used only the ﬁrst ten sentences
in each article for getting basic patterns, as most
important facts are usually written in the ﬁrst few
sentences of a news article. Figure 5 shows all
the basic patterns obtained from the sentence “Ka-
trina hit Louisiana’s coast.” The shaded nodes
“Katrina” and “Louisiana” are entities from which
each basic pattern originates. We take a path
of GLARF nodes from each entity node until it
reaches any predicative node: noun, verb, or ad-
jective in this case. Since the nodes “hit” and
“coast” can be predicates in this example, we ob-
tain three unique paths “Louisiana+T-POS:coast
(Louisiana’s coast)”, “Katrina+SBJ:hit (Katrina
hit something)”, and “Katrina+SBJ:hit-OBJ:coast

X (Katrina hit some coast)”.

WE = mentions(e)·exp(−C ·firstsent(e))
e∈E
where e ∈ E is an entity within one article and
mentions(e) and firstsent(e) are the number of
mentions of entity e in a document and the position
1The ACE task description can be found at
http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/894.01/tests/ace/ and the ACE
guidelines at http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Projects/ACE/
2Thehurricane namesused inthe exampleswere recognized
as PERSON.

To increase the speciﬁcity of patterns, we generate
extra basic patterns by adding a node that is imme-
diately connected to a predicative node. (From this
example, we generate two basic patterns: “hit” and
“hit-coast” from the “Katrina” node.)
Notice that in a GLARF structure, the type
of each argument such as subject or object is
preserved in an edge even if we extract a sin-
gle path of a graph. Now, we replace both
entities “Katrina” and “Louisiana” with variables

SUFFIXbased on their NE tags and obtain parameter- Source articles 28,009
ized patterns: “GPE+T-POS:coast (Louisiana’s Basic clusters 5,543
coast)”, “PER+SBJ:hit (Katrina hit something)”, Basic patterns (token) 643,767
and “PER+SBJ:hit-OBJ:coast (Katrina hit some Basic patterns (type) 7,990
coast)”. Metaclusters 302
After taking all the basic patterns from every basic Metaclusters (rows≥ 3) 101
cluster, we compute the Inverse Cluster Frequency Table 2: Articles and obtained metaclusters.
(ICF) of each unique basic pattern. ICF is similar
to the Inverse Document Frequency (IDF) of words,
and obtained 302 metaclusters (tables). We then re-
which is used to calculate the weight of each basic
moved duplicated rows and took only the tables that
pattern for metaclustering.
had 3 or more rows. Finally we had 101 tables. The
3.5 Metaclustering total number the of articles and clusters we used are
shown in Table 2.
Finally, we can perform metaclustering to obtain ta-
bles. We compute the similarity between each basic 4.1 Evaluation Method
cluster pair, as seen in Figure 6. XA and XB are
the set of cross-document entities from basic clusters We evaluated the obtained tables as follows. For
c and c , respectively. We examine all possible each row in a table, we added a summary of the
A B
mappings of relations (parallel mappings of multi- source articles that were used to extract the rela-
ple entities) from both basic clusters, and ﬁnd all the tion. Then for each table, an evaluator looks into
mappings M whose similarity score exceeds a cer- every row and its source article, and tries to come
tain threshold. wordsim(c ,c ) is the bag-of-words up with a sentence that explains the relation among
A B
similarity of two clusters. As a weighting function its columns. The description should be as speciﬁc as
we used ICF: possible. If at least half of the rows can ﬁt the ex-
planation, the table is considered “consistent.” For
clusters that include p each consistent table, the evaluator wrote down the
weight(p) = −log( )
all clusters sentence using variable names ($1, $2, ...) to refer
to its columns. Finally, we counted the number of
We then sort the similarities of all possible pairs
consistent tables. We also counted how many rows
of basic clusters, and try to build a metacluster by
in each table can ﬁt the explanation.
taking the most strongly connected pair ﬁrst. Note
that in this process we may assign one basic clus- 4.2 Results
ter to several different metaclusters. When a link is
We evaluated 48 randomly chosen tables. Among
found between two basic clusters that were already
these tables, we found that 36 tables were consis-
assigned to a metacluster, we try to put them into
tent. We also counted the total number of rows that
all the existing metaclusters it belongs to. However,
ﬁt each description, shown in Table 3. Table 4 shows
we allow a basic cluster to be added only if it can
the descriptions of the selected tables. The largest
ﬁll all the columns in that table. In other words, the
consistent table was about hurricanes (Table 5). Al-
ﬁrst two basic clusters (i.e. an initial two-row table)
though we cannot exactly measure the recall of each
determines its columns and therefore deﬁne the re-
table, we tried to estimate the recall by comparing
lation of that table.
this hurricane table to a manually created one (Table
4 Experiment and Evaluation 6). We found 6 out of 9 hurricanes 3. It is worth
noting that most of these hurricane names were au-
We used twelve newspapers published mainly in the tomatically disambiguated although our NE tagger
U.S. We collected their articles over two months didn’t distinguish a hurricane name from a person
(from Sep. 21, 2005 - Nov. 27, 2005). We obtained
3Hurricane Katrina and Longwang shown in the previous
643,767 basic patterns and 7,990 unique types. Then examples are not included in this table. They appeared before
we applied metaclustering to these basic clusters this period.for each cluster pair (cA, cB) {

XA = cA.entities

XB = cB.entities

for each entity mapping M = [(xA1,xB1),...,(xAn,xBn)] ∈ (2|XA| ×2|XB|) {

for each entity pair (xAi,xBi){

Pi = xAi.patternsP ∩xBi.patterns

pairscorei = weight(p)

p∈Pi

} P

mapscore = pairscorei

if T1 < |M| and T2 < mapscore and T3 < wordsim(cA.words,cB.words) {

link cA and cB with mapping M.

}

}

}

Figure 6: Computing similarity of basic clusters.

Tables:

Consistent tables 36 (75%)

Inconsistent tables 12

Total 48

Rows:

Rows that ﬁt the description 118 (73%)

Rows not ﬁtted 43

Total 161

Table 3: Evaluation results.

Description

Storm $1(PER) probably affected $2(GPE).

Nominee $2(PER) must be

conﬁrmed by $1(ORG).

$1(PER) urges $2(GPE) to make changes.

$1(GPE) launched an attack in $2(GPE).

$1(PER) ran against $2(PER) in an election.

$2(PER) visited $1(GPE) on a
$2(PER) beat $1(PER) in golf.

diplomatic mission.

$2(GPE) soldier(s) were killed in $1(GPE).

$2(PER) ran for governor of $1(GPE).

Boxer $1(PER) fought boxer $2(PER).

Table 4: Description of obtained
ber of ﬁtted/total rows.

tables and the

name. The second largest table (about

of ofﬁcials) is shown in Table 7.

We reviewed 10 incorrect
bles and found 4 of them were
rors and one error was due to
4 errors were due to multiple
from each other that happened
event reported in the same

rows from various
due to coreference
a parse error. The
basic patterns
to refer to a
cluster. The causes

one remaining error was obscure. Most

tables were a mixture of

multiple relations and

isting IE systems, as we are relying on a cluster of

comparable articles rather than a single document to

discover an event. We might be able to improve this

in the future by adjusting the basic clustering algo-

rithm or weighting schema of basic patterns. Sec-

ondly, some combinations of basic patterns looked

inherently vague. For example, we used the two ba-

sic patterns “pitched” and “’s-series” in the fol-

Rows lowing sentence (the patterns are underlined):

8/16

4/7 Ervin Santana pitched 5 1-3 gutsy innings in his post-

4/6 season debut for the Angels, Adam Kennedy hit a go-

3/5

ahead triple that sent Yankees outﬁelders crashing to the

4/5

2/4 ground, and Los Angeles beat New York 5-3 Monday

4/4 night in the decisive Game 5 of their AL playoff series.

3/3

2/3 It is not clear whether this set of patterns can yield

3/3

any meaningful relation. We are not sure how much

num- this sort of table can affect overall IE performance.

5 Conclusion

nominations In this paper we proposed Preemptive Information

Extraction as a new direction of IE research. As

ta- its key technique, we presented Unrestricted Rela-

er- tion Discovery that tries to ﬁnd parallel correspon-

other dences between multiple entities in a document, and

distant perform clustering using basic patterns as features.

different To increase the number of basic patterns, we used

of the a cluster of comparable articles instead of a single

inconsistent document. We presented the implementation of our

some preliminary system and its outputs. We obtained

of their rows still looked consistent. dozens of usable tables.

We have a couple of open questions. First, the

overall recall of our system might be lower than ex-Article 1:dump 2:coast Acknowledgements

2005-09-21 (1) Rita Texas

2005-09-23 Rita New Orleans This research was supported by the National Science

2005-09-25 Bush Texas Foundation under Grant IIS-00325657. This paper

2005-09-26 Damrey Hainan

(2) does not necessarily reﬂect the position of the U.S.

2005-09-27 Damrey Vietnam

2005-10-01 Rita Louisiana Government. We would like to thank Prof. Ralph

2005-10-02 Otis Mexico Grishman who provided useful suggestions and dis-

2005-10-04 Longwang China cussions.

2005-10-05 Stan Mexico

2005-10-06 Tammy Florida

2005-10-07 Tammy Georgia

2005-10-19 (3) Wilma Florida References

2005-10-25 Wilma Cuba

2005-10-25 Wilma Massachusetts Eugene Agichtein and L. Gravano. 2000. Snowball: Ex-

2005-10-28 Beta Nicaragua tracting Relations from Large Plaintext Collections. In

2005-11-20 Gamma Florida Proceedings of the 5th ACM International Conference

on Digital Libraries (DL-00).

1. More than 2,000 National Guard troops were put on

active-duty alert to assist as Rita slammed into the string Sergey Brin. 1998. Extracting Patterns and Relations

of islands and headed west, perhaps toward Texas. ... from the World Wide Web. In WebDB Workshop at

2. Typhoon Damrey smashed into Vietnam on Tuesday af- EDBT ’98.

ter killing nine people in China, ... Eugene Charniak. 2000. A maximum-entropy-inspired

3. Oil markets have been watching Wilma’s progress ner- parser. In Proceedings of NAACL-2000.

vously, ... but the threat to energy interests appears to

have eased as forecasters predict the storm will turn to- Takaaki Hasegawa, Satoshi Sekine, and Ralph Grishman.

ward Florida. ... 2004. Discovering relations among named entities

from large corpora. In Proceedings of the Annual

Table 5: Hurricane table (“Storm $1(PER) probably Meeting of Association of Computational Linguistics

affected $2(GPE).”) and the actual expressions we (ACL-04).

used for extraction. Adam Meyers, Ralph Grishman, Michiko Kosaka, and

Shubin Zhao. 2001a. Covering Treebanks with

Hurricane Date (Affected Place) Articles GLARF. In ACL/EACL Workshop on Sharing Tools

Philippe Sep 17-20 (?) 6 and Resources for Research and Education.

* Rita Sep 17-26 (Louisiana, Texas, etc.) 566

* Stan Oct 1-5 (Mexico, Nicaragua, etc.) 83 Adam Meyers, Michiko Kosaka, Satoshi Sekine, Ralph

* Tammy Oct 5-? (Georgia, Alabama) 18 Grishman, and Shubin Zhao. 2001b. Parsing and

Vince Oct 8-11 (Portugal, Spain) 12 GLARFing. In Proceedings of RANLP-2001, Tzigov

* Wilma Oct 15-25 (Cuba, Honduras, etc.) 368 Chark, Bulgaria.

Alpha Oct 22-24 (Haiti, Dominican Rep.) 80

* Beta Oct 26-31 (Nicaragua, Honduras) 55 Deepak Ravichandran and Eduard Hovy. 2002. Learning

* Gamma Nov 13-20 (Belize, etc.) 36 surface text patterns for a question answering system.

Table 6: Hurricanes in North America between mid- In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the As-

sociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

Sep. and Nov. (from Wikipedia). Rows with a

star (*) were actually extracted. The number of the Ellen Riloff. 1996. Automatically Generating Extrac-

source articles that contained a mention of the hurri- tion Patterns from Untagged Text. In Proceedings of

the 13th National Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence

cane is shown in the right column. (AAAI-96).

Article 1:conﬁrm 2:be-conﬁrmed Kiyoshi Sudo, Satoshi Sekine, and Ralph Grishman.

2005-09-21 Senate Roberts 2003. An Improved Extraction Pattern Representa-

2005-10-03 Supreme Court Miers tion Model for Automatic IE Pattern Acquisition. In

2005-10-20 Senate Bush Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of Association of

2005-10-26 Senate Sauerbrey Computational Linguistics (ACL-03).

2005-10-31 Senate Mr. Alito

2005-11-04 Senate Alito Roman Yangarber, Ralph Grishman, Pasi Tapanainen,

2005-11-17 Fed Bernanke and Silja Huttunen. 2000. Unsupervised Discovery

of Scenario-Level Patterns for Information Extraction.

Table 7: Nomination table (“Nominee $2(PER) In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference

must be conﬁrmed by $1(ORG).”) on Computational Linguistics (COLING-00).