IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016 1

Individual Diﬀerential Privacy: A Utility-Preserving
Formulation of Diﬀerential Privacy Guarantees
Jordi Soria-Comas, Josep Domingo-Ferrer, Fellow, IEEE, David Sánchez, and David Megías, Member, IEEE

Abstract—Diﬀerential privacy is a popular privacy Essentially, two main approaches exist in statistical
model within the research community because of the disclosure control [1], [2] to limit the disclosure risk: (i)
strong privacy guarantee it oﬀers, namely that the
non-interactive protection, whereby a protected version
presence or absence of any individual in a data set does
of the original data set collected from the data subjects
not signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the results of analyses on the
data set. However, enforcing this strict guarantee in is generated and released, and (ii) interactive protection,
practice signiﬁcantly distorts data and/or limits data whereby a user-queried data analysis is performed on the
uses, thus diminishing the analytical utility of the dif- original data set, and then a protected version of the
ferentially private results. In an attempt to address this
results is returned to the user. When the type of data
shortcoming, several relaxations of diﬀerential privacy
analysis is not known at the time of data protection,
have been proposed that trade oﬀ privacy guarantees
for improved data utility. In this work, we argue that the former approach is the only viable solution; however,
the standard formalization of diﬀerential privacy is for a ﬁxed data analysis known beforehand, interactive
stricter than required by the intuitive privacy guar- protection should be preferred as it allows adjusting the
antee it seeks. In particular, the standard formaliza-
level of protection to the analysis being performed, which
tion requires indistinguishability of results between any
makes it possible to maximize the accuracy of the results.
pair of neighbor data sets, while indistinguishability
between the actual data set and its neighbor data sets In this work, we focus on the interactive setting, which
should be enough. This limits the data controller’s diﬀerential privacy [3] has substantially advanced. The
ability to adjust the level of protection to the actual main contribution of diﬀerential privacy is the strong
data, hence resulting in signiﬁcant accuracy loss. In
privacy guarantee it provides: while it does not prevent
this respect, we propose individual diﬀerential privacy,
disclosure, it guarantees that a disclosure is equally likely
an alternative diﬀerential privacy notion that oﬀers
the same privacy guarantees as standard diﬀerential whether or not any particular individual contributes her
privacy to individuals (even though not to groups of data. This is diametrically opposed to the aim of privacy
individuals). This new notion allows the data controller models focusing on the non-interactive setting [4], [5],
to adjust the distortion to the actual data set, which
[6], [7], which seek to provide absolute guarantees against
results in less distortion and more analytical accuracy.
We propose several mechanisms to attain individual speciﬁc types of intruders (with a speciﬁc knowledge on the
diﬀerential privacy and we compare the new notion data to be protected). The problem of the latter models is
against standard diﬀerential privacy in terms of the that real intruders may diﬀer from the speciﬁc intruders
accuracy of the analytical results. considered by the models; in particular, real intruders may
Index Terms—Data privacy, Data utility, Diﬀerential know more than assumed.
privacy. However, despite its popularity among researchers and
the step forward it oﬀers in terms of privacy guarantees,
I. Introduction diﬀerential privacy is only being deployed to a limited
extent in real-world applications. The basic reason is
The development of information technologies has
the poor accuracy/utility of diﬀerentially private results.
boosted the collection of data about individuals. Data
Except for a number of well-behaved applications (queries
stores containing personal data are a valuable resource
that are stable to modiﬁcation of one record), diﬀerential
to support decision making both in the public and the
privacy has too large an impact on utility for it to be
private sector. However, individuals have growing concerns
widely used in data analysis/mining (see related remarks
on the use of their potentially sensitive data. In order to
in Section III). This is also conﬁrmed by the amount of
guarantee the fundamental right of individuals to privacy,
relaxations of diﬀerential privacy that have been proposed
appropriate data protection measures to limit disclosure
(see Section III), which seek to improve the accuracy of
risk must be implemented before making data available
the results by trading it oﬀ against privacy guarantees.
for analysis.
In any case, the intuition behind diﬀerential privacy,
J. Soria-Comas, J. Domingo-Ferrer and D. Sánchez are with the that is, “the presence or absence of an individual in a
UNESCO Chair in Data Privacy, Department of Computer Engi- data set should not signiﬁcantly modify the results of the
neering and Mathematics, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Av. Països
Catalans 26, E-43007 Tarragona, Catalonia. E-mail {jordi.soria, analysis”, is very adequate for disclosure risk limitation: if
josep.domingo, david.sanchez}@urv.cat the data on an individual have a signiﬁcant impact on the
D. Megías is with the Estudis d’Informàtica, Multimèdia i Tele- results of an analysis, most probably the privacy of this
comunicació, Internet Interdisciplinary Institute (IN3), Universitat
Oberta de Catalunya, Av. Carl Friedrich Gauss 5, E-08860 Castellde- individual is at risk. Thus, intuitively, diﬀerential privacy
fels, Catalonia. E-mail dmegias@uoc.edu ensures the data are adequately protected.IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
However, we argue here that the standard
of diﬀerential privacy is stronger (and, thus,
data distortion and less useful results) than
data protection intuition requires. This can
two diﬀerent but related points of view:
• Diﬀerential privacy assumes the presence
party that holds the data set, receives
mitted by the users and returns diﬀerentially

formalization
leads to more model
what the above to
be seen from reduce
of
of a trusted mon
queries sub- one
private

2
present and formalize our individual diﬀerential privacy
and in Section V we propose several mechanisms
satisfy it that exploit its less strict formulation to
data distortion. Section VI analyzes the accuracy
individually diﬀerentially private results of several com-
queries and compares their accuracy against the
obtained using standard diﬀerential privacy. The ﬁnal
section presents the conclusions along with some future

results for these queries. In the standard diﬀerential research lines.

privacy formulation, the trusted party is not allowed

to use its knowledge of the actual data
puting the noise to be added to the query
order to protect privacy.
• Diﬀerential privacy provides provable
tees to groups of data subjects (in addition
that derive from the guarantees given
subject individually). These guarantees
go beyond the previously mentioned
diﬀerential privacy, which is about
individuals.
While being more demanding than required
itive notion of diﬀerential privacy may be
argue in the following sections that enforcing

set when com-
response in
privacy guaran- the
to those
to each data the
for groups
intuition behind
protecting single tion
by the intu-
meaningful, we
tion
an actually
sets

II. Background on Differential Privacy
Diﬀerential privacy was originally proposed in [3] as a
privacy model for the interactive setting, that is, to protect
results of queries to a database. In this setting, a
diﬀerentially private sanitization mechanism sits between
user submitting queries and the database controller
answering them. To preserve the privacy of individuals, the
sanitization mechanism must guarantee that the contribu-
of each individual’s data to a query result is limited
(according to an parameter).
Deﬁnition 1 ( -diﬀerential privacy). A randomized func-
κ gives -diﬀerential privacy (or -DP) if, for all data
D and D that diﬀer in one record (a.k.a. neighbor

stronger privacy notion may have a signiﬁcant negative 1 2

data sets), and all S ⊂ Range(κ), we have

impact on the accuracy/utility of the protected results.

Thus, if data utility is a priority, the suitability
ing additional guarantees (i.e., group-based
privacy) should be carefully pondered. Besides,
tical disclosure control, the goal is to prevent
inferences on single individuals, but accurate
on groups (statistical and aggregate
usually viewed as legitimate analyses.
In this line, we propose here individual
vacy, a novel formalization of diﬀerential
aligned with the intuitive diﬀerential privacy
Our approach limits the protection to the
the data set (as suggested in the intuitive
than extending it to groups of individuals (as
the standard deﬁnition of diﬀerential privacy).
this means that the trusted party managing
make use of its knowledge of the actual data
of query response and downwardly adjust
to the actual data; as a consequence of the
distortion, the accuracy/utility of the protected
be signiﬁcantly improved in comparison with
formulation of diﬀerential privacy.
Nonetheless, we will also indicate how to
ual diﬀerential privacy to group diﬀerential
the data controller wants to oﬀer privacy
groups while still leveraging his knowledge
data set when computing the distortion to
protection.

of includ-
diﬀerential
in statis-
a
accurate
to
inferences
computations) are
value
of
diﬀerential pri-
In
privacy that is
guarantees.
of
individuals in
in
notion), rather
formalized in
in
In practice,
the data can
posing
set at the time
DP,
the distortion
lower data
ones
results can
the standard
extend individ- tion
privacy, in case (κ
1
guarantees for
on the actual
be added for
to

Pr(κ(D)∈S)≤exp() Pr(κ(D)∈S).
1 2
Let D be the data set that is to be protected. Given
query f , the goal in DP is to ﬁnd an approximation
f that satisﬁes the privacy requirements stated in
Deﬁnition 1. Let us call κf such an approximation. The
of κf (D) is then returned as the query result, instead
the actual value f (D).
the following, we refer to the diﬀerentially private
condition in terms of indistinguishability: the distributions
the responses to the queries between data sets that diﬀer
one record are similar.
An interesting property of DP, which the privacy models
the k-anonymity family (k-anonymity [4], l-diversity [5],
t-closeness [6], etc.) do not have, is composition: com-
several diﬀerentially private results still satisﬁes
although with a diﬀerent parameter value. Several
composition theorems have been stated. The most basic
are:
Theorem 1 (Sequential composition). Let κ be a ran-
1
domized function giving 1-DP and κ2 a randomized func-
giving -DP. Then, any deterministic function of
2
,κ ) gives ( + )-DP.
2 1 2
Theorem 2 (Parallel composition). Let κ1 and κ2 be
randomized functions giving -DP. If κ and κ are applied
1 2
disjoint data sets or subsets of records, any deterministic
function of (κ ,κ ) gives -DP.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Sec- 1 2

tion II provides background on the standard
and the usual mechanisms to attain diﬀerential
Section III reviews related work aimed at
accuracy/utility of diﬀerentially private results
lights the diﬀerences with our approach. In

formulation
privacy. called
improving the vate
and high-
Section IV, we tual

The computational mechanism to attain DP is often
a diﬀerentially private sanitizer. Diﬀerentially pri-
mechanisms for numerical data can be seen as noise
addition mechanisms that, rather than returning the ac-
query value f (D), mask it by adding some noise.IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
The amount of noise that needs to be added
on the variability of the query function between
data sets. This noise may be: (i) independent of the
set, which requires adjusting the noise to the
variability between neighbor data sets, or (ii) dependent
on the data set, which allows adjusting the level of
to the variability of f in the actual data set.
A. Noise calibration to the global sensitivity
The global sensitivity measures the maximum
ity of a function between neighbor data sets.
Deﬁnition 2 (l1-sensitivity (a.k.a. global sensitivity))
The l -sensitivity of a function f : D→R k is
1
Δf= max f(x)−f(y) ,
1

3
depends Example 1. Consider a data set X = {x ,...,xn}, where
1
neighbor each record corresponds to a value in {0, 1}. For the sake
data of simplicity, we assume that the number of records is odd,
maximum say n =2m + 1, so that the median corresponds to a single
record, the m + 1-th record. The global sensitivity of the
noise median is 1, since we can consider the neighbor data sets:
{0, m+1... ,0, 1, m...,1}→median =0,
{0, m...,0, 1, m+1... ,1}→median =1.
variabil- The local sensitivity is, except for the two previous data
sets, always 0. The reason is that, except for the previous
data sets, changing the value of a record does not modify
. the median.
In most cases, releasing the value of a query with a
magnitude of noise proportional to the local sensitivity

x,y∈D (rather than the global sensitivity) would result in a signif-

d(x,y)=1 icantly more accurate response. However, using the local

sensitivity in mechanisms designed for global sensitivity

where d(x, y) means that data sets x and y diﬀer in one

does not yield DP.

record.

Example 2. Consider the data sets: {0, m+2... ,0, 1, m−¹... ,1}

In calibration to the global sensitivity, DP is attained by

and {0, m+1... ,0, 1, m...,1}. In both cases the median is 0, but

adding a noise to the query response that is proportional

the local sensitivity diﬀers; it is 0 in the ﬁrst case and 1

to the global sensitivity; that is, the maximum variability

in the second one:

of the query response in the domain of the data.
noise distributions are possible (e.g. the Laplace
tion [8], the optimal absolutely continuous distribution
and the discrete Laplace distribution [10]). For the
of conciseness, we focus on the commonly used
distribution.
Proposition 1. Let f be a query function with values
R k. The mechanism κf (X)=f (X)+(N₁,...,Nk),

Several median local sensitivity
distribu- X = 0, m+2... ,0, 1, m−¹... ,1 00
{ }
[9], X ′ = 0, m+1... ,0, 1, m...,1 01
{ }
sake
Laplace Given that the local sensitivity for X is 0, adding a noise
proportional to the local sensitivity does not modify the
median; thus, the probability of getting 1 is 0. For -DP
in to be satisﬁed, the probability of getting 1 for X ′ must
where also be 0. However, that is not the case, since the local

Ni are independent and identically distributed random sensitivity for X ′ is diﬀerent from 0.

noises drawn from a Laplace(0,/Δf ) distribution, is -

diﬀerentially private.
B. Noise calibration to the smooth sensitivity
Even if the variability of the query function in the
data set is small, quite often its variability in the
domain (i.e., global sensitivity) is large. In these
the use of a noise calibrated to the global sensitivity
may seriously and unjustiﬁedly damage data, but a
dependent noise may still permit accurate results.
a data set D, the variability of a function between D
its neighbor data sets is known as the local sensitivity.
Deﬁnition 3 (Local sensitivity [11]). Let f be a
that is evaluated at data sets and returns values in
The local sensitivity of f at D is
LSf(D)= max f(y)−f(D) .

The previous example shows that the amount of noise
used to protect a data set should not only be proportional
to its local sensitivity but also take into account the local
sensitivity of neighbor data sets. Considering the local
actual sensitivity of neighbor data sets leads to the notion of
data smooth sensitivity.
cases,
Deﬁnition 4 (Smooth sensitivity). Fo r β>0 and a data
set D ∈D,theβ-smooth sensitivity of f at D is deﬁned
data-
as
Given
and Sf,β(D) = max(LSf (y) exp(−βd(D, y))).
The greater the parameter β, the smaller the depen-
function dence of the smooth sensitivity on the local sensitivity of
R k. neighbor data sets. Thus, the amount of noise required to
attain -DP must depend on other factors apart from the
smooth sensitivity. In particular, a special kind of distribu-

y d y,D 1 tions, known as (α, β)-admissible distributions [11], must

: ( )=1

be used. The downside of these distributions is that they

Obviously, the global sensitivity upper-bounds the local

are heavy-tailed.

sensitivity. Moreover, the local sensitivity is usually small,

except for especially ill-conditioned data sets. In this case,

III. Related Work

the gap between the global and the local sensitivity can

be large. This is illustrated in the following example
function that returns the median of a list of values.

for a Even though DP is appreciated for the strong privacy
guarantees it oﬀers, its practical deployment is hamperedIEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
by the poor accuracy oﬀered by diﬀerentially private
mechanisms.
Works that discuss the accuracy limitations of diﬀeren-

4
a small probability. The relaxation that we propose in the
next section is diﬀerent in the sense that the privacy guarantees for individuals envisioned in the original deﬁnition

tially private results in diﬀerent contexts include [12], [13], of DP are preserved.

[14], [15], [16]. Although these accuracy issues have hin-

dered the practical adoption of DP, they have also boosted

IV. Individual differential privacy

further research to ﬁnd ﬁxes. This research has taken two

main lines: (i) to come up with novel diﬀerentially private
mechanisms that improve the accuracy of the results, and
(ii) to propose relaxations of DP that require less data
distortion and allow for more accurate results.
An outcome of the ﬁrst line is the design of general
mechanisms that improve accuracy with respect to the basic Laplace noise addition mechanism. In [11], the calibration of Laplace noise to the global sensitivity of the data is
replaced by the calibration of suitable noises to the smooth
sensitivity. On the other hand, the authors of [9] showed
that the Laplace distribution is not optimal to attain DP
based on calibration to the global sensitivity. They described and constructed the optimal absolutely continuous
distributions: essentially, a distribution is optimal if the
probability mass is as concentrated as possible around zero
given the DP constraints. Other outcomes of the ﬁrst line
of research are mechanisms that are less sensitive. In [17],
[18], [19], several methods based on microaggregation of
records are proposed to generate diﬀerentially private
data sets. In [20], the dependence between attributes is
analyzed to reduce the dimensionality in the computation
of diﬀerentially private histograms. Other works that try
to improve the accuracy in histogram publication are [21],
[22]. In [23], a diﬀerentially private alternative to the ID3
algorithm for learning decision trees is proposed.
The second line of research, focused on ﬁnding relax-
ations of DP, has been active since the inception of DP.
In [24], the concept of δ-approximate -indistinguishability
is presented (a.k.a. (, δ)-indistinguishability in [11]). This
relaxation allows some additional margin δ to the requirements in DP. In [25], the notion of (, δ)-probabilistic
diﬀerential privacy (a.k.a. (, δ)-pdp) is proposed. Rather
than allowing some additional margin, it requires -DP
to be satisﬁed with probability greater than 1 − δ.In
other words, the probability that the adversary gains
signiﬁcant information about an individual is, at most, δ.
Yet another relaxation is given in [15], who assume that
conﬁdential data become less sensitive over time, which
allows relaxing privacy parameters for older data. In [26],
a relaxation is presented that restricts the deﬁnition of
neighbor data sets: they are no longer data sets diﬀering
in any record, but in a record within a certain subset.
In [27], an alternative relaxation of DP, called (μ, τ )-
concentrated diﬀerential privacy, is proposed. Similarly
to (, δ)-pdp, concentrated diﬀerential privacy allows the
ratio of probabilities to be arbitrarily large with a small
probability that is determined by the parameters μ and τ .
In all the above relaxations, the accuracy gain is obtained by allowing the diﬀerentially private condition to
be broken: the presence or absence of an individual may

The existing relaxations of DP violate strict DP because, under some circumstances, they permit the probability of responses to diﬀer signiﬁcantly between neighbor
data sets. In this section, we take a diﬀerent approach
to improve data accuracy/utility. Rather than proposing another relaxation, we analyze the intuitive privacy
guarantees that DP seeks to capture and we suggest an
alternative deﬁnition that allows exactly attaining these
privacy guarantees and nothing more.
A. Intuitive view of diﬀerential privacy
As introduced above, DP assumes the presence of a
trusted party that: (i) holds the data set, (ii) receives the
queries submitted by the data users, and (iii) responds to
them in a privacy-aware manner.
We described in Section II that the standard notion of
DP is formalized in terms of indistinguishability of the
response to queries between neighbor data sets. However,
prior to this formalization, [3] provided an intuitive description of the privacy guarantees aimed at by DP:
Any given disclosure will be, within a small
multiplicative factor, just as likely whether or not
the individual participates in the database. As
a consequence, there is a nominally higher risk
for the individual who participates, and only a
nominal gain for the individual who conceals or
misrepresents her data.
Thus, individuals should not be reluctant to participate in
the data set. After all, the risk of disclosure is only very
marginally increased by participation.
Providing relative (rather than absolute) privacy guarantees is the only sensible approach to deal with intruders
having arbitrary side knowledge. Absolute privacy guarantees against arbitrary side knowledge are incompatible
with releasing accurate statistics. This is illustrated in [3]
with a simple example about the height of an individual
I: if the intruder knows that the height of I is two inches
above the average height of the population of a country,
then releasing an accurate approximation of the average
height of the population provides the intruder with an
accurate estimate of I’s height. Here it is important to
notice that such disclosure happens even if I does not
participate in the data set. Thus, the disclosure is not
associated to I’s participation in the data set, but to the
accurate side knowledge. This illustrates that diﬀerential
privacy cannot guarantee that disclosure will not happen;
what it guarantees is that, should disclosure happen, it
will not be due to the participation of any particular

leak some information, although not too much or only with individual.IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
B. Formalization of individual diﬀerential privacy
DP is the result of formalizing the intuitive view of
privacy described in Section IV-A into a rigorous mathematical deﬁnition. However, the fact that in this formalization (see Deﬁnition 1) results are required to be
indistinguishable between any pair of neighbor data sets
is more stringent than required by the intuitive view of
0
privacy that is described above. Let us explain this in
greater detail.
Consider an individual I who has to decide between
participating in a data set or not. To neutralize any
reluctance by I to disclose her private information, I is
told that query answers based on the data set will not
allow anyone to learn anything that was not learnable
without I’s presence; this is precisely the intuitive privacy
guarantee DP oﬀers. Although DP controls the access to
a data set regardless of the way the data were collected
(either through voluntary participation or not), thinking
in terms of voluntary participation is clarifying: we can
think that an individual accepts to participate if she
regards privacy protection as suﬃcient.
To attain such privacy guarantees, DP requires the
response to be indistinguishable between any pair of neighbor data sets. While such a requirement yields the target
privacy guarantees indeed, it is an overkill because, in
reality, queries are not answered on an arbitrary data
set, but on the actual data set held by the trusted
party. In other words, if D is the collected data set,
the target privacy guarantees can be attained by just
requiring indistinguishability of the responses between D
and its neighbor data sets. Notice that, although the
data set D is not known until all the individuals have
made their decisions about participating/contributing to
it, the presence of a trusted party that controls the access
to D makes it possible to give the previously described
indistinguishability guarantees. After all, the data set D is
known to the trusted party at the time of query response.
According to the previous discussion, we propose the
following privacy model, which we call -individual diﬀerential privacy.
Deﬁnition 5 ( -individual diﬀerential privacy). Given
a data set D, a response mechanism κ(·) satisﬁes -
individual diﬀerential privacy (or -i DP) if, for any data
set D ′ that is a neighbor of D, and any S ⊂ Range(κ)we
have
a
exp(−) Pr(κ(D ′)∈S)≤Pr(κ(D)∈S)
≤ exp( ) Pr(κ(D ′) ∈ S).
In line with Deﬁnition 1, we require the probability of
any result to diﬀer between neighbor data sets at most
by a factor of exp( ). However, unlike in Deﬁnition 1,
the role of the data sets D and D ′ is not exchangeable:
D refers to the actual data set, and D ′ to a neighbor
data set of D. The asymmetry between D and D ′ is relevant, because indistinguishability is achieved only between
D and its neighbor data sets. As a side eﬀect of this
asymmetry, we need to explicitly enforce an upper bound

5
(Pr(κ(D) ∈ S)≤ exp( ) Pr(κ(D ′) ∈ S)) and a lower bound
(exp(− ) Pr(κ(D ′) ∈ S)) ≤ Pr(κ(D) ∈ S)). This was not
needed in Deﬁnition 1 because the upper bound could be
obtained from the lower bound by exchanging the roles of
D and D ′.
To illustrate the implications of the diﬀerences between
DP and i DP, consider a data set D whose records are either
or 1, and assume that we query the data set for the
median. We consider two cases, D = {0, 0, 0, 0, 1} and
1
D = {0, 0, 0, 1, 1}, which are discussed next:
2
• In data set D₁, the median is 0. Moreover, the median
remains 0 after modiﬁcation of any single record.
Since the median is unaﬀected by the contribution
of any single individual, there is no way to learn
anything about an individual from the median of D₁.
Hence, according to i DP, the median of D₁ can be
released without any masking. This is not the case
according to DP, where the mere existence of a pair
of neighbor data sets (not involving D₁) with diﬀerent
values for the median requires masking it (even if the
median of D₁ discloses nothing about any individual).
• In data set D₂, the median is 0, but a change in
a single record is enough for the median to become
1. Since a single individual may aﬀect the result of
the median, information about an individual might
be learned from the value of the median. To limit the
risk of disclosure, both DP and i DP require masking
the outcome of the median.
In the previous example, we have considered boundary
cases where the change of a single record can make it
necessary or unnecessary to mask the query result. Let
us now consider a diﬀerent case, consisting of a data set
D with 99 binary records, of which 90 contain the value 1.
3
Clearly, no single individual has any eﬀect on the median
of D . Thus, i DP does not require any masking for the
3
answer to the median query. In contrast, under DP the
possible existence of a data set D containing forty-nine
4
0s and ﬁfty 1s has to be considered, in which a single
individual can change the median; since this data set must
be indistinguishable from its neighbors given the value
of its median, the answer to the median query must be
masked even for D (although D and D are far from
3 3 4
neighbors).
Like in DP, two diﬀerent notions of neighbor data sets
D and D ′ are possible in i DP. We can either think of D ′ as
data set generated from D by modifying one record or
as a data set generated from D by adding or removing one
record. Although such a choice can make some diﬀerence
in terms of query answers, both alternatives are similar as
far as disclosure risk limitation is concerned. In the sequel,
we assume that D ′ is generated from D by modifying one
record.
Strictly speaking, individual diﬀerential privacy is a relaxation of DP where indistinguishability is only required
between the actual data set D and its neighbor data sets.
Thus, the following holds:
Proposition 2. Any mechanism that satisﬁes -DP alsosatisﬁes -i DP for any actual
However, unlike other
dividual diﬀerential privacy
guarantees that DP gives to
rather than being regarded
diﬀerential privacy can be
formalization of the intuitive
in Section IV-A.
Even though we can satisfy
mechanisms commonly used
would squander the potential
reason is that, as discussed
adjust the noise to the actual
reduce its magnitude. In Section
that are speciﬁc to -i DP.
C. Disclosure limitation for
If -i DP oﬀers all the
-diﬀerential privacy while
because -i DP oﬀers nothing
guarantees. Let us discuss this
Even if DP seeks to protect
impact of each single individual
Deﬁnition 1 also results in
for groups of individuals. For

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
data set D.
relaxations in the literature,
preserves the strict privacy
individuals. In this sense,
as a relaxation, individual
construed as a more precise
notion of privacy described
-i DP by resorting to
to satisfy -DP, doing
accuracy gains of -i DP.
in Section II, being able
data set may signiﬁcantly
V, we design mechanisms
groups of data subjects
intuitive privacy guarantees
allowing more accuracy, it
more than those intuitive
issue here.
privacy by limiting
on a query response,
(limited) privacy guarantees
example, if data sets D
1

6
Direct group privacy guarantees not being part of the
intuitive notion of DP (which is aimed at individuals), but
in-
rather a by-product of the formalization in Deﬁnition 1,
we drop such group guarantees in order to improve data
utility. However, the proposed i DP could be modiﬁed to
retain privacy guarantees for groups of individuals, by
requiring indistinguishability between the data set D and
the data sets D ′ that diﬀer from D in a group of records,
as follows.
the
so Deﬁnition 6 (( 1,...,n)-group diﬀerential privacy).
The Given a data set D, a response mechanism κ sat-
to isﬁes ( 1,...,n)-group diﬀerential privacy (denoted
( ,...,n)-g DP) if, for any data set D ′ at distance i ∈
1
{1,...,n} from D, and any S ⊂ Range(κ) it holds
exp(− i) Pr(κ(D ′) ∈ S) ≤ Pr(κ(D) ∈ S)
≤ exp( i) Pr(κ(D ′) ∈ S).
Notice that, in general, the level of protection for groups
of should be smaller than for individuals. For example, in DP,
is the parameter grows linearly with the cardinality of the
group and, thus, the level of indistinguishability decreases
exponentially with the size of the group. As a result, even
the in standard DP, protection for groups of individuals is only
noticeable for small values of (which on the other hand
severely damage data utility) and for small groups. To
and attain an equivalent level of protection with g DP, it must

D diﬀer in two individuals (two records), by considering be i = i for i ∈ N.

3

the intermediate data set D that diﬀers in one individual

2

from D₁ and in one individual from D₃,wehave D. Composition theorems

Pr(κ(D)∈S)≤exp(
1
Pr(κ(D)∈S)≤exp(
2
which results in
Pr(κ(D ) ∈ S) ≤ exp(2
1
That is, -DP guarantees
groups of two individuals is
More generally, the knowledge
individuals is limited by the
In contrast, with i DP, the
anism is adjusted to each
concatenation of inequalities
the data sets D₁, D₂ and

) Pr(κ(D)∈S),
2
) Pr(κ(D)∈S),
3
) Pr(κ(D)∈S).
3
that the knowledge gain
limited by the factor exp(2
gain for a group of
factor exp(n).
fact that the response mech-
concrete data set makes
not possible. Speciﬁcally,
D₃ above, i DP provides

The composition theorems for DP described in Section II are also trivially satisﬁed by individual diﬀerential
privacy.
Theorem 3 (Sequential composition). Let κ be a mech-
1
anism giving -i DP and κ a mechanism giving -i DP.
1 2 2
Then, any deterministic function of (κ ,κ ) gives + -
1 2 1 2
for i DP.
).
n Theorem 4 (Parallel composition). Let κ1 and κ2 be
mechanisms giving -i DP. If κ1 and κ2 are applied to
disjoint data sets or subsets of records, any deterministic
the function of (κ1,κ2) gives -i DP.
for The proofs of the theorems for i DP are not detailed
the because they are straightforward adaptations of the proofs

upper bounds of Theorems 1 and 2 for DP.

Pr(κ(D)∈S)≤exp() Pr(κ(D)∈S),

1 2

Pr(κ ′(D ) ∈ S) ≤ exp( ) Pr(κ ′(D ) ∈ S), E. Privacy axioms

2 3

In [28], an axiomatization of the notions of privacy and

where κ is a mechanism whose distortion is calibrated on

utility is proposed. In particular, two desirable properties

D and κ ′ is a mechanism whose distortion is calibrated

1
on D . Note that the probability
2
the ﬁrst inequality does not
left-hand side of the second
Therefore, with i DP we
antees for groups of individuals.
disclosure risk limitation for
under -i DP is an indirect
risk limitation obtained by

on the right-hand side
match the probability on
inequality.
lose any direct privacy
In other words,
a group that may subsist
consequence of the disclosure
each individual in the group.

of privacy models are described: the axiom of transforma-
of
tion invariance and the privacy axiom of choice.
the
The axiom of transformation invariance says that post-
processing of sanitized data must be safe as long as
guar-
no sensitive information is incorporated into the post-
any
processing.
Deﬁnition 7 (Axiom of transformation invariance). Suppose we have a privacy deﬁnition, a privacy mechanism MIEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
that satisﬁes this deﬁnition, and a randomized algorithm
A whose input space is the output space of M and whose
randomness is independent of both the data and the
randomness in M . Then M ′ = A◦M must also be a privacy
mechanism satisfying that privacy deﬁnition.
Proposition 3. -i DP satisﬁes the axiom of transforma-
tion invariance.
Proof. Let M be an -i DP mechanism, and let A be a
randomized algorithm whose input space is the output
space of M and whose randomness is independent of both
the data and the randomness in M . According to [28],
we can think of M and A as returning independent
probability distributions. That is, M : D→Dist(E)
assigns to each data set D a probability distribution over
E such that, for each D ′ that diﬀers in one record from
D, we have exp(− ) Pr(M (D ′) ∈ S) ≤ Pr(M (D) ∈ S)
≤ exp( ) Pr(M (D ′) ∈ S). On the other hand, A : E →

local sensitivity LSf (D) (see Deﬁnition
calibrate the noise to the local
the global or smooth sensitivities is a
to preserve data utility: ﬁrst, many
local sensitivity but large global
after Deﬁnition 3 above; second,
sensitivity also improves the accuracy
with respect to calibration to the
only because the local sensitivity
smooth sensitivity, but also because
cal sensitivity allows using exponentially
distributions (rather than the
required by calibration to the smooth
but not least, calibration to the local
than calibration to the smooth
We next detail how to enforce i DP
and discrete numerical results.

7
3). The ability to
sensitivity rather than to
signiﬁcant advantage
functions have small
sensitivity, as noted right
calibration to the local
of query responses
smooth sensitivity, not
is smaller than the
calibration to the lo-
decreasing noise
heavy-tailed distributions
sensitivity). Last
sensitivity is simpler
sensitivity.
for both continuous

Dist(F ) assigns to each e ∈ E a probability distribution A. Laplace mechanism

over F .

The Laplace(μ, b) distribution (a.k.a the double expo-

To check that exp(− ) Pr(A(M (D ′) ∈ S)) ≤

nential distribution) is an absolutely continuous distribu-

Pr(A(M (D)) ∈ S) ≤ exp( ) Pr(A(M (D ′)) ∈ S),

∫ tion whose density function is

we decompose Pr(A(M (d)) ∈ S)as x S Pr(M (d)=

∈ ( )

y) Pr(A(y)=x) and we use that M satisﬁes -i DP.
The privacy axiom of choice allows randomly choosing
between -i DP mechanisms.
Deﬁnition 8 (Privacy axiom of choice). Let M₁ and
M be privacy mechanisms that satisfy a certain privacy
2
deﬁnition. For any p ∈ [0, 1], let Mp be a randomized
algorithm that, on input i, outputs M (i) with probability
1
p (independent of the data and the randomness in M and
1
M ) and M (i) with probability 1−p. Then Mp is a privacy
2 2
mechanism that satisﬁes the privacy deﬁnition.
Proposition 4. -i DP satisﬁes the privacy axiom of
choice.
Proof. Let M and M be -i DP mechanisms, and let p
1 2 ∈
[0, 1]. Let Mp be a mechanism that, on input i, outputs

1 |x
Lμ,b(x)= exp −
2b
where μ is the location parameter,
parameter. We use Lb(x) when the
In case of using the Laplace distribution
random noise, i DP can be rewritten
Proposition 5. Let f be a
k
takes values in R . The mechanism
(N₁,...,Nk), where Ni are independent
tributed Laplace(0,LSf (D)/) random
Proof. If N is a vector of independent
tributed variables, we know that for
( )
z−z ′ Pr(z+N=s)
exp − 1 ≤
β Pr(z ′+N=s)

− μ|
,
b
and b is the scale
mean parameter is zero.
to generate the
as follows.
query function that
κ(x)=f (x)+
identically dis-
noises, gives -i DP.
Laplace(0,β) dis-
all s ∈ R k
( )
z − z ′
≤ exp 1 .
β

M (i) with probability p and M (i) with probability 1 − p. ′

1 2
We want to check that Mp is -i DP. That is, for any
D ′ neighbor of D, we have exp(− ) Pr(Mp(D ′) ∈ S) ≤
Pr(Mp(D) ∈ S) ≤ exp( ) Pr(Mp(D ′) ∈ S). This is easily
seen by expressing Pr(Mp(D) ∈ S)asp × Pr(M (D) ∈
1
S)+(1− p) × Pr(M₂(D) ∈ S) and using that both M₁ and
M satisfy -i DP.
2
V. -iDP for Numerical Queries
In DP, response mechanisms for numerical queries are
often expressed in terms of noise addition (see Section II).
In this line, given a numerical query f , this section presents
an -i DP mechanism of the form κ(x)=f (x)+N , where
N is a random noise.
Fo r κ(x)=f (x)+N to be -i DP, we have to make
sure that the result of the mechanism is indistinguishable between D and its neighbor data sets. As we show
later, this can be done by adjusting the noise to the

Let D be a data set that diﬀers
By taking z = f (D), z ′ = f (D ′), and
get
Pr(f (D)+N =
exp(− ) ≤
Pr(f(D ′)+N =
B. Discrete Laplace mechanism
The previous mechanism (based on
with values in R) is also capable
query functions with values in Z.
functions the use of a noise distribution
Z is a better option. The discrete
distribution is deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 9 (Discrete Laplace
dom variable N follows the discrete

from D in one record.
β = LSf (D)/ we
s)
≤ exp( ).
s)
adding random noise
of providing DP to
However, for such query
with support over
version of the Laplace
distribution [10]). A ran-
Laplace distributionIEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
with parameter α ∈ (0, 1), denoted by DL(α), if
k ∈ Z,
Pr(N = i)= 1−α α |i|.
1+α
The discrete Laplace distribution can also be
attain -i DP. To this end, the parameter α
adjusted to the desired privacy level and to
sensitivity LSf (D) of the query.

for all mechanisms
i DP allows
speciﬁc data
reasonably high
used to 1) Diﬀerential
must be sitivity: Let
the local be instances
sider data
x ,...,xm are

8
to signiﬁcantly degrade accuracy. Instead,
adjusting the amount of protection to each
set; thus, most of the times, i DP yields
accuracy, as we discuss below.
privacy via calibration to the global sen-
the values x , ··· ,xn, with n =2m +1,
1
of an attribute with domain Dom(A). Con-
sets D₁ and D₂ such that: in D₁ values
equal to the minimum of Dom(A), and val-

Theorem 5 (The discrete Laplace mechanism). Let f 1

k

ues xm ,...,xn

are equal to the maximum of Dom(A);

be a function with values in Z . The discrete mechanism +1

and in D values x ,...,xm are equal to the minimum of

κ D(x)=f (x)+N , where N =(N ,...,Nk) and
1
DL(exp(−/LSf (D))) are independent random
gives -i DP.
Proof. If N is a vector of independent DL(α)

Ni ∼ 2
Dom(A), and
variables,
of Dom(A).
minimum of
distributed maximum of

1 −1
values xm,...,xn are equal to the maximum
As a result, the median xm in D is the
1
Dom(A), and the median xm in D is the
2
Dom(A); thus, the global sensitivity for the

variables, we know that for all s ∈ Z k median is

z−z ′ Pr(z+N=s) −z−z ′
α 1 ≤ ≤ α 1 .
Pr(z ′+N=s)
Let D ′ be a data set that diﬀers from D
record. By taking z = f (D), z ′ = f (D ′) and
exp(−/LSf (D)), we get
Pr(f(D)+N = s)
exp(− ) ≤ ≤ exp( ).
Pr(f(D ′)+N = s)
VI. Evaluation
In this section, we compare the accuracy obtained
the standard DP deﬁnition and with i DP for basic
addition mechanisms. In particular, we compare
tion to the global sensitivity (for DP), to the
sensitivity (for DP), and to the local sensitivity (for
Noise addition mechanisms provide simple ways
an output compliant with DP (or i DP) and are
the speciﬁc data uses; hence, using standard noise
mechanisms is relevant to make a general
between DP and i DP.
Since the accuracy we obtain from standard
brated to the smooth sensitivity and from i DP
to the local sensitivity depends on the actual data
purely empirical evaluation carried out on some
data sets would only provide a partial picture.
we give both an empirical analysis based on
and a theoretical analysis. We will see that, even
worst case, i DP oﬀers a signiﬁcant improvement
accuracy of the responses.
A. Median
The median is a measure of central tendency.
to the arithmetic mean, the median is quite stable,
it is relatively insensitive to outliers. Since
queries like the median represent properties of the
rather than properties of a speciﬁc individual, we
expect DP to provide accurate results for such
However, the fact that standard DP guarantees must
for any pair of neighbor data sets forces noise

Δ(median)

Having a

in one

severely

α =

estimations of

sensitivity. The

domain of the

incomes are

dividuals falls

may not even

without artiﬁcially

2) Diﬀerential

with sensitivity:

noise avoid the

calibra- the amount of

smooth sensitivity for

i DP).

Smedian,(D)=

to make

= max

agnostic to
addition
comparison
DP cali-
calibrated
set, a
sample
Therefore,
simulations
in the
on the

k=0,...,n
Calibration to
ing the amount
However, it
• Computing
particular,
the median
not be
• Similarly
sitivity
bounded.
• The
than with
distributions
nentially

Compared to the

because

3) i DP (via

statistical

allows the

data set

justed to each

could

to the local

queries.

local sensitivity

hold

addition

LSmedian(D)

= max(Dom(A)) min(Dom(A)).
−
global sensitivity equal to the domain size
compromises the accuracy of diﬀerentially private
the median via calibration to the global
situation becomes even worse when the
attribute is not naturally bounded (e.g.
unbounded, even if the income of most in-
within a given window); in such cases, it
be possible to compute the global sensitivity
restricting the values to a ﬁxed interval.
privacy via calibration to the smooth
Calibration to the smooth sensitivity tries to
shortcomings of global sensitivity by adjusting
noise to each data set. From [11], the smooth
the median is
{exp(−k) max {xm+t − xm+t−k−1}}.
0≤t≤k+1
the smooth sensitivity is eﬀective at reduc-
of noise that is added to most data sets.
still has some drawbacks:
the smooth sensitivity can be complex. In
the formula for the smooth sensitivity of
has time complexity O(n²), which may
feasible for large data sets.
to the global sensitivity, the smooth sen-
can only be computed when Dom(A)is
mechanisms used to attain DP are more complex
global sensitivity, and the eligible noise
are heavy-tailed (rather than the expo-
decreasing distributions used in calibration
global sensitivity).
calibration to the local sensitivity): i DP also
response mechanism to be independently ad-
data set. i DP can be reached via calibration
sensitivity (see Section V). For the median, the
is:
=max{xm−xm ,xm −xm}.
−1 +1IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016 9

Table I
95% confidence intervals of the noise distributions required
by -DP via calibration to the smooth sensitivity (for
different values of the noise parameter γ) and -iDP via
calibration to the local sensitivity (with a Laplace
distribution), where the query is the median, =1and
sensitivities are 1.
Privacy model -i DP -DP γ =2 -DP γ =3
95% interval [-3,3] [-101.7,101.7] [-34.2,34.2]

These results show that the use of calibration to the

Figure 1. Comparison of the noise distributions required
calibration to the smooth sensitivity (for γ = 2 and γ = 3,
the noise parameter) and -i DP via calibration to the local
(with a Laplace distribution), where the query is the
and sensitivities are 1.
i DP via calibration to the local sensitivity oﬀers
lowing advantages compared to calibration to the
sensitivity:
• The computation of the local sensitivity is

by -DP via smooth sensitivity may be incompatible with an accurate
where γ is and -diﬀerentially private approximation for the median.
sensitivity
median, =1 Although the smooth sensitivity is deﬁnitely better than
the global sensitivity for noise calibration, at 95% conﬁdence the amount of noise can be as large as 101 times the
smooth sensitivity. Whether this is acceptable depends on
the fol-
the data set. Only if the smooth sensitivity is very small
smooth
compared to the attribute domain, accuracy may still be
acceptable. In contrast, the accuracy provided by i DP is
less com- much better: at 95% conﬁdence, the noise is at most 3

plex. times the local sensitivity.

• The local sensitivity is lower than the smooth
tivity.
• The local sensitivity does not depend on
the domain. It only depends on xm−1, xm
• The mechanism used to attain i DP is simpler
noise distributions can be selected to be
decreasing (e.g. the Laplace distribution).
4) Experimental comparison between DP with

sensi- Finally, we evaluate the accuracy of the median by
computing, for a collection of data sets, the average ab-
the size of solute error incurred; we use the absolute error because
and xm+1. the relative error may be misleading when the median is
and the close to 0. We consider data sets with three diﬀerent sizes
exponentially (10, 100, and 1000) whose records are drawn from U [0, 1]
(the uniform distribution in [0, 1]), N (0, 1) (the normal
smooth distribution with mean 0 and variance 1) and Exp(1) (the

sensitivity and i DP: After the previous theoretical com- exponential distribution with rate 1).

parison, we now turn to experimental evaluation
curacy for the median. Due to the poor accuracy
by calibration to the global sensitivity, the
focuses on DP via calibration to the smooth
and i DP via calibration to the local sensitivity.
For i DP, we have used the mechanism
Proposition 5. For standard DP, we have used
having a density of the form
1

of the ac- For the smooth sensitivity to be ﬁnite, the domain of the
provided records must be bounded. Thus, to be able to compute the
comparison smooth sensitivity in the N (0, 1) and the Exp(1) cases, we
sensitivity have to restrict the domain of the data. This is done by
bounding the domain to the range between the minimum
proposed in and the maximum values in the data set. Figure 2 shows
a noise N the average absolute error for each of the data sets. We
include the results obtained for DP by adjusting the noise
to the smooth sensitivity with γ = 3, and for i DP by

f N (x) ∝ , adjusting a Laplace noise to the local sensitivity. We

1+ x γ

| | took γ = 3 as the best performing value after evaluating

where γ>1. This noise distribution is ( ,
to achieve DP calibrated to the smooth sensitivity
In the comparison, we take = 1 and we
the local sensitivity equals the smooth sensitivity.
i) noise in DP is proportional to the smooth
ii) noise in i DP is proportional to the local
and iii) the latter sensitivity is never greater
former, both sensitivities being equal is the
for i DP. Speciﬁcally, we take both sensitivities
1. Figure 1 shows the distribution of the noise
response. Even in the most favorable case for the
sensitivity, the accuracy obtained with i DP is much
The reason is that, to enforce -DP via calibration
smooth sensitivity, the noise distribution must
tailed. Table I shows 95%-conﬁdence intervals
noise distributions.

)-admissible several other values of γ; speciﬁcally, smaller values led to
[11]. too much probability mass in the tails, whereas greater
assume that values introduced greater correction factors to the noise
Since distribution that oﬀset the gain produced by having the
sensitivity, probability mass closer to zero. By looking at the ﬁgure, we
sensitivity, notice that, regardless of the underlying data distribution
than the and the data set size, the results are signiﬁcantly better
worst case for i DP.
equal to
in the
B. Maximum
smooth
better. Rather than comparing the accuracy obtained with
to the diﬀerent mechanisms in a baseline scenario, this example
be heavy- focuses on the maximum value of a data set and shows how
for these i DP is useful to avoid calibrating the noise to a domain-
dependent (and hence too large) sensitivity.IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016 10

Figure 2. Absolute error in the median (y-axis) for in the range [0.5, 1] (x-axis) and several data sets. Data sets have been drawn from
a speciﬁc distribution: U [0, 1] (top row graphs), N (0, 1) (middle row graphs) and Exp(1) (bottom row graphs). Data set sizes are 10 (left
column graphs), 100 (middle column graphs), and 1000 (right column graphs). Especially in the left column graphs, it can be seen that
strict DP yields completely oﬀ-range median values for all considered , as the median of a U [0, 1] must be within [0, 1], and, with very great
probability, the median of a N (0, 1) is within [−3, 3] and the median of an Exp(1) is within [0, 5]. Clearly, i DP is much more utility-preserving.

1) Diﬀerential privacy via calibration to the global sensitivity: The global sensitivity of the maximum of a set of
values equals the length of the domain. Let us consider
data sets D and D such that: in D , all the values
1 2 1
x1,...,xn are equal to the minimum of Dom(A), and in
D₂ the values x1,...,xn−1 are equal to the minimum of
Dom(A), and the value xn is equal to the maximum of
Dom(A). Thus, the global sensitivity for the maximum is
Δ(maximum) = max(Dom(A)) − min(Dom(A)).
Like in the case of the median, having a global sensitivity
equal to the domain size severely degrades the accuracy
of diﬀerentially private estimations of the maximum via
calibration to the global sensitivity. Also, if the domain
is unbounded, the global sensitivity cannot even be computed.
2) Diﬀerential privacy via calibration to the smooth
sensitivity: The smooth sensitivity for the maximum can
be computed as
Smaximum,(D)=
max {exp(−k)(max(Dom(A)) − xn−k),
k=0,...,n
exp(−k)(xn − xn−k−1)}.
Calibration to the smooth sensitivity is eﬀective to reduce
the amount of noise that is added to most data sets. In

fact, except for the worst-case data sets described when
computing the global sensitivity, the smooth sensitivity is
smaller. However, the smooth sensitivity does not avoid
the dependence on the domain of the attribute.
3) i DP (via calibration to the local sensitivity): The
local sensitivity of the maximum can be computed as
LSmaximum(D) = max{max(Dom(A)) − xn,xn − xn }.
−1
While i DP oﬀers the expected advantages (the local sensitivity is smaller than the smooth sensitivity, and we can
use exponentially decreasing noise distributions), the local
sensitivity still depends on the domain of the attribute,
which can be unbounded. However, i DP allows an easy
workaround to solve this issue: rather than querying for
the maximum value, we can query for the second maximum. Unless there is a single record that has a signiﬁcantly
greater value (as in the worst-case data set described
above), querying for the second maximum should be a
reasonably good approximation; otherwise, the approximation will be very inexact, but, anyway, the accuracy
when querying for the maximum would also be poor. The
advantage of querying for the second maximum is that the
local sensitivity does not depend on the domain anymore:
LS (D)=max{xn−xn ,xn −xn }.
2−max −1 −1 −2IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016
It is important to note that this workaround to avoid
having a sensitivity that depends on the domain attribute
is not possible with calibration to the smooth sensitivity.
C. Range queries
Given a data set D and a range R, a range query counts
the number of records of D that are contained in R:
f(D)=|{x∈D:x∈R}|.
R
Range queries behave well under DP: their sensitivity is
1. This low sensitivity is preserved in histogram queries (a
collection of range queries over disjoint ranges).
The mechanisms to attain -i DP described in Sections V-A and V-B were based on calibrating the noise
to the local sensitivity at D. As the local sensitivity of
f at any D is 1, which is equal to the global sensitivity,
R
the use of these mechanisms does not provide improved
accuracy w.r.t. DP.
VII. Conclusions and future work
This work formalizes and discusses individual diﬀerential privacy, an alternative to the standard formulation
of DP that reduces the noise to be added to the query
results and, thus, better preserves their accuracy/utility.
While, at ﬁrst sight, individual diﬀerential privacy may
look like another relaxation of DP, it exactly maintains
the intuitive disclosure limitation guarantee of DP: the
presence or absence of one individual in the data set
must be unnoticeable from the query result. Improving
the accuracy of the results is possible because individual
diﬀerential privacy exploits the fact that the actual data
set is known by the trusted data controller at the time of
answering queries. By focusing only on indistinguishability
between the actual data set and its neighbor data sets, the
sensitivity of the query and, and hence, the magnitude of
noise to be added signiﬁcantly decrease.
We have also proposed several mechanisms to attain individual diﬀerential privacy. First, we have explained that
any mechanism providing -DP also provides -individual

11
In addition to improved accuracy, i DP via local sensitivity
is less dependent on the attribute domain (which may be
large or even unbounded); what is more, in case the local
sensitivity depends on the domain, workarounds can be
found.
In our opinion, the signiﬁcant accuracy/utility gains
brought by -i DP, together with its strong privacy guarantee (the same intuitive privacy guarantee of -DP for
individuals), pave the way to using -i DP where standard
DP is not viable. As future work, we plan to study the
performance of i DP for other common queries in the
interactive scenario. We also plan to design mechanisms,
other than noise addition, that may oﬀer improved utility
for speciﬁc tasks. Speciﬁcally, we aim at mechanisms for
non-numerical discrete functions that leverage the advantages of i DP. Finally, we also plan to apply -i DP
to non-interactive data releases. Although such releases
provide more ﬂexibility regarding data uses, they have
been traditionally neglected by researchers because of the
enormous distortion that making them diﬀerentially private according to the standard deﬁnition would entail [18].
Acknowledgments and disclaimer
We thank Frank Mc Sherry and Daniel Kifer for their
comments and suggestions on individual diﬀerential privacy. This work was supported by the European Commission (projects H2020-644024 “CLARUS” and H2020-
700540 “CANVAS”), by the Spanish Government (projects
TIN2014-57364-C2-1/2-R “Smart Glacis”, TIN2016-80250-
R “Sec-MCloud” and TIN2015-70054-REDC) and by the
Government of Catalonia under grant 2014 SGR 537.
Josep Domingo-Ferrer is partially supported as an ICREA-
Acadèmia researcher by the Government of Catalonia. The
opinions expressed in this paper are the authors’ own and
do not necessarily reﬂect the views of UNESCO. The ﬁrst
and second authors thank the Isaac Newton Institute for
Mathematical Sciences at the University of Cambridge for
support and hospitality during the “Data Linkage and
Anonymisation” programme (funded by EPSRC Grant
Number EP/K032208/1), when work on this paper was

diﬀerential privacy. However, direct use of -diﬀerentially completed and discussed.

private mechanisms fails to reap the potential accuracy

improvements of individual diﬀerential privacy. Next, we
have shown that, for numerical queries, -i DP can be
attained by adjusting the noise to the local sensitivity,
which results in substantial accuracy gains:
Since the local sensitivity is normally signiﬁcantly
•

References
[1] A. Hundepool, J. Domingo-Ferrer, L. Franconi, S. Giessing,
E. Schulte-Nordholt, K. Spicer, and P. de Wolf, Statistical
disclosure control. Wiley, 2012.
[2] J. Domingo-Ferrer, D. Sanchez, and J. Soria-Comas,
Database Anonymization: Privacy Models, Data Utility,
and Microaggregation-Based Inter-Model Connections. Morgan

smaller than the global sensitivity employed by stan- & Claypool, 2016.

dard DP, i DP leads to substantially better accuracy.
• Even if noise is calibrated to the smooth sensitivity,
i DP still oﬀers much better accuracy and this for two
reasons: (i) the local sensitivity is smaller than the
smooth sensitivity (although the diﬀerence is not as
important as with respect to the global sensitivity);
(ii) exponentially decreasing random noise can be
used with local sensitivity (in contrast with the heavy-
tailed noises that are to be employed with calibration

[3] C. Dwork, “Diﬀerential privacy,” in Automata, Languages and
Programming, Springer, 2006, pp. 1–12.
[4] P. Samarati, “Protecting respondents’ identities in microdata
release,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 1010–1027, Nov. 2001.
[5] A. Machanavajjhala, D. Kifer, J. Gehrke, and M. Venkita-
subramaniam, “l-diversity: privacy beyond k-anonymity,” ACM
Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data,vol.1,no.1,
Mar. 2007.
[6] N. Li, T. Li, and S. Venkatasubramanian, “t-closeness: privacy
beyond k-anonymity and l-diversity,” in ICDE, R. Chirkova,
A. Dogac, M. T. Özsu, and T. K. Sellis, Eds. IEEE, 2007,

to the smooth sensitivity). pp. 106–115.IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, VOL. X, NO. X, JULY 2016 12

[7] J. Soria-Comas and J. Domingo-Ferrer, “Probabilistic k- [26] A.
anonymity through microaggregation and data swapping,” in
FUZZ-IEEE 2012, IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy pp.
Systems, Brisbane, Australia, IEEE, pp. 1-8. [27] C.
[8] C. Dwork, F. Mc Sherry, K. Nissim, and A. D. Smith, “Calibrat- privacy,”

Machanavajjhala and D. Kiefer, “Designing statistical privacy for your data,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 58, no. 3,
58–67, 2015.
Dwork and G. N. Rothblum, “Concentrated diﬀerential
Co RR, vol. abs/1603.01887, 2016. [Online]. Available:

ing noise to sensitivity in private data analysis,” in Theory of http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01887

Cryptography, Third Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC [28] D.
2006, New York, NY, USA, March 4-7, 2006, pp. 265–284.
[9] J. Soria-Comas and J. Domingo-Ferrer, “Optimal data- ACM
independent noise for diﬀerential privacy.” Information Sciences, vol. 250, pp. 200–214, 2013. 2010,
[10] S. Inusah and T. J. Kozubowski, “A discrete analogue of the
Laplace distribution,” Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference, vol. 136, no. 3, pp. 1090–1102, 2006.
[11] K. Nissim, S. Raskhodnikova, and A. Smith, “Smooth sensitivity
and sampling in private data analysis,” in Proceedings of the
39th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC
’07. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2007, pp. 75–84.
[12] J. Bambauer, K. Muralidhar, and R. Sarathy, “Fool’s gold: an
illustrated critique of diﬀerential privacy,” Vanderbilt Journal of
Entertainment & Technology Law, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 701–755,
Summer 2014.
[13] R. Sarathy and K. Muralidhar, “Evaluating Laplace noise addition to satisfy diﬀerential privacy for numeric data,” Transactions on Data Privacy, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1–17, Apr. 2011.
[14] A. Friedman and A. Schuster, “Data mining with diﬀerential privacy,” in Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD
’10. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2010, pp. 493–502.
[15] P. Mohan, A. Thakurta, E. Shi, D. Song, and D. Culler, “GUPT:
privacy preserving data analysis made easy,” in Proceedings of
the 2012 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2012, pp. 349–360.
[16] M. Fredrikson, E. Lantz, S. Jha, S. Lin, D. Page, and T. Risten-
part, “Privacy in pharmacogenetics: an end-to-end case study
of personalized warfarin dosing,” in Proceedings of the 23rd
USENIX Security Symposium, San Diego CA, EUA, 2014, pp.
17–32.
[17] J. Soria-Comas, J. Domingo-Ferrer, D. Sánchez, and
S. Martínez, “Improving the utility of diﬀerentially private
data releases via k-anonymity,” in 12th IEEE International
Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and
Communications (TrustCom), July 2013, pp. 372–379.
tocols.
[18] J. Soria-Comas, J. Domingo-Ferrer, D. Sánchez, and
S. Martínez, “Enhancing data utility in diﬀerential privacy via
microaggregation-based k-anonymity,” The VLDB Journal,
vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 771–794, Oct. 2014.
[19] D. Sánchez, J. Domingo-Ferrer, S. Martínez, and J. Soria-
Comas, “Utility-preserving diﬀerentially private data releases
via individual ranking microaggregation,” Information Fusion,
vol. 30, pp. 1 – 14, 2016.
[20] J. Zhang, G. Cormode, C. M. Procopiuc, D. Srivastava, and
X. Xiao, “Privbayes: private data release via Bayesian net-
works,” in Proceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGMOD International
Conference on Management of Data, SIGMOD ’14. New York,
NY, USA: ACM, 2014, pp. 1423–1434.
[21] J. Xu, Z. Zhang, X. Xiao, Y. Yang, and G. Yu, “Diﬀerentially private histogram publication,” in Proceedings of the 28th
IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, ICDE
’12. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society, 2012, pp. 32–
43.
[22] Y. Xiao, L. Xiong, and C. Yuan, “Diﬀerentially private data
release through multidimensional partitioning,” in Secure Data
Management, Springer, 2010, pp. 150–168.
[23] G. Jagannathan, K. Pillaipakkamnatt, and R. N. Wright, “A
practical diﬀerentially private random decision tree classiﬁer,”
Transactions on Data Privacy, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 273–295, Apr.
2012.
[24] C. Dwork, K. Kenthapadi, F. Mc Sherry, I. Mironov, and
M. Naor, “Our data, ourselves: privacy via distributed noise
generation,” in Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2006,
Springer, 2006, pp. 486–503.
[25] A. Machanavajjhala, D. Kifer, J. Abowd, J. Gehrke, and L. Vil-
huber, “Privacy: theory meets practice on the map,” in Pro-

Kifer and B.-R. Lin, “Towards an axiomatization of
statistical privacy and utility,” in Proceedings of the 29th
SIGMOD-SIGACT-SIGART Symposium on Principles
of Database Systems, PODS ’10. New York, NY, USA: ACM,
pp. 147-158.
Jordi Soria-Comas is a postdoctoral researcher at Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Tarragona, Catalonia. He received an MSc in computer security (2011) and a Ph D in computer
science (2013) from Universitat Rovira i Vir-
gili. He also holds an MSc in ﬁnance from the
Autonomous University of Barcelona (2004)
and a BSc in mathematics from the University
of Barcelona (2003). His research interests are
in data privacy and security.
Josep Domingo-Ferrer (Fellow, IEEE) is
a distinguished professor of computer science
and an ICREA-Acadèmia researcher at Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Tarragona, Catalonia,
where he holds the UNESCO Chair in Data
Privacy. He received the MSc and PhD degrees
in computer science from the Autonomous
University of Barcelona in 1988 and 1991,
respectively. He also holds an MSc degree in
mathematics. His research interests are in data
privacy, data security and cryptographic pro-
David Sánchez is an associate professor of
computer science at Universitat Rovira i Vir-
gili, Tarragona, Catalonia. He received a Ph D
in computer science (2008) from the Technical
University of Catalonia. He also holds a BSc
and an MSc in computer engineering from Universitat Rovira i Virgili. His research interests
are in data semantics and data privacy.
David Megías (Member, IEEE) received
a Ph D in computer science from the Autonomous University of Barcelona (2000),
where he was an assistant lecturer from 1994 to
2001. Since 2001, he is a tenured associate professor with Universitat Oberta de Catalunya
(UOC). He currently serves as the director of
the Internet Interdisciplinary Institute (IN3)
of UOC. His current research interests include
security and privacy in multimedia content
distribution, steganography, steganalysis and

ceedings of the 24th IEEE International Conference on Data information security and privacy.

Engineering (ICDE 2008), 2008, pp. 277–286.