Userid: DTD INSTR04 Leadpct: 0% Pt. size: 9.5 Draft Ok to Print
PAGER/SGML Fileid: D:\USERS\8fllb\documents\epicfiles\2007Instructions1040NR.sgm (Init. & date)
Page 1 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service2007
Instructions for
Form 1040NR

U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return

Section references are to the Internal
Revenue Code unless otherwise noted.
General Instructions
What’s New for 2007
Tax benefits extended. The following
tax benefits were extended through
2007.
Deduction for educator expenses in
figuring adjusted gross income.
District of Columbia first-time
homebuyer credit.
Alternative minimum tax (AMT)
exemption amount decreased. The

use a different address this year. See
Where To File
Domestic production activities
Unreported social security and
Medicare tax on wages.
withhold social security and Medicare
Refundable credit for prior-year
minimum tax.

on page 4.
If you are
an employee and your employer did not
If you have an unused

retirement plan and your 2008 modified
qualifying widow(er)).
participant in a 401(k) plan and your
earlier year.
exemptions and itemized deductions.
The amount by which these deductions

AMT exemption amount is decreased to take this credit.

$33,750 ($45,000 if a qualifying
widow(er); $22,500 if married filing
separately).
At the time these instructions
! went to print, Congress was
CAUTION considering legislation that
would increase the amounts above. To
find out if this legislation was enacted,
and for more details, see the
Instructions for Form 6251.
IRA deduction expanded. If you were
covered by a retirement plan, you may
be able to take an IRA deduction if your
2007 modified adjusted gross income
(AGI) is less than $62,000 ($103,000 if
a qualifying widow(er)).
You may be able to deduct up to an
additional $3,000 if you were a
participant in a 401(k) plan and your
employer was in bankruptcy in an
earlier year.
Standard mileage rates. The 2007
rate for business use of your vehicle is
48¹/2 cents a mile. The 2007 rate for
use of your vehicle to move is 20 cents
a mile. The special rate for charitable
use of your vehicle to provide relief
related to Hurricane Katrina has
expired.
maximum amount you can defer under
all plans is generally limited to $15,500
($10,500 if you only have SIMPLE
plans; $18,500 for section 403(b) plans
if you qualify for the 15-year rule). See
the instructions for line 8 on page 10.
Mailing your return. If you are filing
the return for an estate or trust, you will

Health savings account (HSA)
able to elect to exclude from income a
and 16b beginning on page 12.
a bank record (such as a cancelled
check) or a written record from the
the name of the charity, date, and
amount of the contribution. See
U.S. Charities
Exemption for housing a person
displaced by Hurricane Katrina
expires.
2007 or later years.
Telephone excise tax credit.
on your 2006 return, file Form 1040X
in its instructions to amend your 2006
1040EZ-T.
What’s New for 2008
IRA deduction expanded.
if age 50 or older at the end of the
deduction if you were covered by a

HSA. See the instructions for lines 16a
charity. The written record must include
Gifts to
that begins on page 26.
The additional exemption
amount for housing a person displaced
by Hurricane Katrina does not apply for
This
return. If you filed but did not request it
return. If you were not required to file a
You may
be able to deduct up to $5,000 ($6,000

the amount of the reduction that
5% capital gain tax rate is reduced to
zero.
must file Form 6251 will also apply to
the children listed above.
benefits are scheduled to expire and
will not apply for 2008.
figuring adjusted gross income.
The exclusion from income of
qualified charitable deductions.
property.
District of Columbia first-time
purchased after 2007).

deduction. The deduction rate for

2007 is increased to 6%.

tax, see Form 8919 to figure and report Personal exemption and itemized

this tax. deduction phaseouts reduced.

minimum tax credit carryforward from

2004, see Form 8801 to find if you can

distribution made from your IRA to your Capital gain tax rate reduced. The

New recordkeeping requirements for Tax on children’s income. Form

contributions of money. For 8615 will be required to figure the tax

charitable contributions of money, for the following children with

regardless of the amount, you must investment income of more than

maintain as a record of the contribution $1,800.

credit was available only on your 2006 and the special rule for when a child

using a simplified procedure explained Expiring tax benefits. The following

Elective salary deferrals. The 2006 return, see the 2006 Form

year). You may be able to take an IRA homebuyer credit (for homes

Cat. No. 11368V

AGI is less than $63,000 ($105,000) if a
You may be able to deduct up to an
additional $3,000 if you were a
employer was in bankruptcy in an
Taxpayers with adjusted gross income
above a certain amount may lose part
of their deduction for personal
are reduced in 2008 will be only ¹/2 of
funding distributions. You may be otherwise would have applied in 2007.
1. Children under age 18 at the end
of 2008.
2. The following children if their
earned income is not more than half
their support.
a. Children age 18 at the end of
2008.
b. Children over age 18 and under
age 24 at the end of 2008 who are
full-time students.
The election to report a child’s
investment income on a parent’s return
Deduction for educator expenses in
Credit for nonbusiness energyPage 2 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Items to Note
Form 1040NR-EZ. You may be able
to use Form 1040NR-EZ if your only
income from U.S. sources is wages,
salaries, tips, taxable refunds of state
and local income taxes, and
scholarship or fellowship grants. For
more details, see Form 1040NR-EZ
and its instructions.
Former U.S. citizens and former U.S.
long-term residents. If you
renounced your U.S. citizenship or
terminated your long-term resident
status after June 3, 2004, you will
continue to be treated for federal tax
purposes as a citizen or long-term
resident of the United States until you
(a) give notice of your expatriating act
or termination of residency (with the
requisite intent to relinquish citizenship
or terminate such status) to the
Department of State or the Department
of Homeland Security, and (b) provide
an initial expatriation statement (Form
8854) to the IRS. Additionally, if you are
subject to the expatriation tax rules of
section 877(a), you are required to file
an annual expatriation information
statement (Form 8854) with the IRS for
10 tax years after the date of your
expatriation. For more details, see
Special Rules for Former U.S. Citizens
and Former U.S. Long-Term Residents
that begins on page 6 and Pub. 519,
U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens.
Other reporting requirements. If you
meet the closer connection to a foreign
country exception to the substantial
presence test, you must file Form 8840.
If you exclude days of presence in the
United States for purposes of the
substantial presence test, you must file
Form 8843. This rule does not apply to
foreign-government-related individuals

forms and schedules you will need are
available from the Internal Revenue
Service. You can download them from
see Taxpayer Assistance on page 32
for other ways to get them (as well as
information on receiving IRS assistance
in completing the forms).
Resident Alien or
Nonresident Alien
If you are not a citizen of the United
States, specific rules apply to determine
if you are a resident alien or a
nonresident alien for tax purposes.
Generally, you are considered a
resident alien if you meet either the
green card test or the substantial
presence test for 2007. (These tests
are explained below.) Even if you do
not meet either of these tests, you may
be able to choose to be treated as a
U.S. resident for part of 2007. See
First-Year Choice in Pub. 519 for
details.
You are generally considered a
nonresident alien for the year if you are
not a U.S. resident under either of
these tests. However, even if you are a
U.S. resident under one of these tests,
you may still be considered a
nonresident alien if you qualify as a
resident of a treaty country within the
meaning of the tax treaty between the
United States and that country. You
can download the complete text of most
U.S. tax treaties at www.irs.gov.
Technical explanations for many of
those treaties are also available at that
site.
For more details on resident and
nonresident status, the tests for
residence, and the exceptions to them,

However, there are exceptions to this
following as days of presence in the
presence test.
Days you commute to work in the
United States from a residence in
Canada or Mexico if you regularly
commute from Canada or Mexico.
Days you are in the United States for
the United States.
Days you are in the United States as
a crew member of a foreign vessel.
Days you intend, but are unable, to
leave the United States because of a
medical condition that arose while you
were in the United States.
Days you are an exempt individual
(defined below).
purposes, an exempt individual is
generally an individual who is a:
individual,
Teacher or trainee,
Student, or
Professional athlete who is
temporarily in the United States to
compete in a charitable sports event.
are treated as either students, teachers,
or trainees and, as such, are exempt
individuals for purposes of the
otherwise qualify. “Q” visas are issued
international cultural exchange
programs.
See Pub. 519 for more details
regarding days of presence in the
United States for the substantial
presence test.

who exclude days of presence in the see Pub. 519.

United States. Certain dual-resident
taxpayers who claim tax treaty benefits
must file Form 8833. A dual-resident
taxpayer is one who is a resident of
both the United States and another
country under each country’s tax laws.
Additional Information
If you need more information, our free
publications may help you. Pub. 519
will be the most important, but the
following publications may also help.
Pub. 525 Taxable and Nontaxable
Pub. 529 Miscellaneous Deductions
Pub. 552 Recordkeeping for Individuals
Pub. 597 Information on the United
States-Canada Income Tax
Pub. 901 U.S. Tax Treaties
Pub. 910 Guide to Free Tax Services

Green Card Test
Substantial Presence Test
You are considered a U.S. resident if
you meet the substantial presence test
for 2007. You meet this test if you were
physically present in the United States
2006, and 2005, counting all the days
of physical presence in 2007, but only
Generally, you are treated as

Closer Connection to Foreign
Country
Even though you otherwise would meet
the substantial presence test, you can
be treated as a nonresident alien if you:
Were present in the United States for
Establish that during 2007 you had a
tax home in a foreign country, and
Establish that during 2007 you had a
closer connection to one foreign
country in which you had a tax home
Who Must File

the IRS website at www.irs.gov. Also United States for the substantial
You are a resident for tax purposes if
you were a lawful permanent resident
(immigrant) of the United States at any
time during 2007.
for at least:
1. 31 days during 2007, and countries.
Income 2. 183 days during the period 2007, See Pub. 519 for more information.
¹/3 the number of days of presence in
2006 and only ¹/6 the number of days in File Form 1040NR if any of the
Treaty 2005. following four conditions applies to you.
(includes a list of all present in the United States on any day United States during 2007. You must
publications) that you are physically present in the file even if:

These free publications and the country at any time during the day.
rule. In general, do not count the
less than 24 hours when you are in
transit between two places outside of
Exempt individual. For these
Foreign government-related
Note. Alien individuals with “Q” visas
substantial presence test if they
to aliens participating in certain
fewer than 183 days during 2007,
than to the United States unless you
had a closer connection to two foreign
1. You were a nonresident alien
engaged in a trade or business in the
-2- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 3 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

a. You have no income from a trade
or business conducted in the United
States,
b. You have no U.S. source income,
or
c. Your income is exempt from U.S.
tax under a tax treaty or any section of
the Internal Revenue Code.
However, if you have no gross
income for 2007, do not complete the
schedules for Form 1040NR. Instead,
attach a list of the kinds of exclusions
you claim and the amount of each.
2. You were a nonresident alien not
engaged in a trade or business in the
United States during 2007 and:
a. You received income from U.S.
sources that is reportable on lines 76a
through 85, and
b. Not all of the U.S. tax that you
owe was withheld from that income.
3. You represent a deceased
person who would have had to file
Form 1040NR.
4. You represent an estate or trust
that has to file Form 1040NR.
file Form 1040NR if:
1. Your only U.S. trade or business
was the performance of personal
services, and
a. Your wages were less than
$3,400; and
b. You have no other need to file a
return to claim a refund of overwithheld
taxes, to satisfy additional withholding
at source, or to claim income exempt or
partly exempt by treaty, or
student, teacher, or trainee who was
temporarily present in the United States
under an “F,” “J,”“M,” or “Q” visa, and
you have no income that is subject to
tax under section 871 (that is, the
income items listed on lines 8 through
21 on page 1 of Form 1040NR and on
lines 76a through 85 on page 4 of Form
1040NR).
Exception for children under age 18.
If your child was under age 18 at the
end of 2007, had income only from
interest and dividends that are
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business, and that income totaled
less than $8,500, you may be able to
elect to report your child’s income on
your return. But you must use Form
8814 to do so. If you make this election,
your child does not have to file a return.
For details, see Form 8814.
A child born on January 1,
! 1990, is considered to be age
CAUTION 18 at the end of 2007. Do not
use Form 8814 for such a child.
Filing a deceased person’s return.
The personal representative must file
the return for a deceased person who
was required to file a return for 2007. A
Instructions for Form 1040NR

personal representative can be an
executor, administrator, or anyone who
is in charge of the deceased person’s
property.
Filing for an estate or trust. If you
are filing Form 1040NR for a
nonresident alien estate or trust,
provisions of Subchapter J, Chapter 1,
of the Internal Revenue Code. You may
find it helpful to refer to Form 1041 and
its instructions.
If you are filing Form 1040NR
Former U.S. citizens and former U.S.
renounced your U.S. citizenship or
terminated your long-term resident
status after June 3, 2004, you are
required to (a) file Form 8854, and (b)
the Instructions to Form 8854).
If you fail to take these two actions,
you are still treated as a citizen or
resident of the United States, and you
must report your worldwide taxable
income on Form 1040, 1040A, or
1040EZ, and figure your tax as shown
in the instructions for those forms. You
can only file Form 1040NR and figure
your tax as a nonresident alien for the
portion of the year after you have
Rules for Former U.S. Citizens and
in Pub. 519.
Simplified Procedure for
Claiming Certain Refunds
meet all of the following conditions for
the tax year.
You were a nonresident alien.
You were not engaged in a trade or
business in the United States at any
time.
You had no income that was
claim a refund of U.S. tax withheld at
source.
alien individual. The only U.S. source
income he received during the year was
dividend income from U.S. stocks. The
dividend income was reported to him on
Form(s) 1042-S. On one of the dividend
-3-

incorrectly withheld at a rate of 30%
(instead of 15%). John is eligible to use
If you meet all of the conditions listed
1040NR as follows.
number (defined on page 8), type of
entry visa, country of citizenship, and all
address information requested at the
top of page 1. Leave the rest of page 1
of, or exemption from, withholding on
dividend payments, the withholding
other withholding discrepancies. Mary
must report all four dividend payments.
She is not required to report any of the
interest payments.
Note. Payments of gross proceeds
futures contracts are generally exempt
from U.S. tax. If you received such
payments and they were subjected to
backup withholding, specify the type of
payment on line 85 and show the
amount in column (e).
these lines as instructed on the form.
must identify the income tax treaty and
treaty article(s) under which you are
applying for a refund of tax. Also, enter
the type of income (for example,
dividends, royalties) and amount in the

CAUTION to file Form 3520-A, Annual the amounts of gross income you

Information Return of Foreign Trust received from dividends, interest,

With a U.S. Owner, on or before March royalties, pensions, annuities, and other

17, 2008. For more information, see the income. If any income you received

Instructions for Form 3520-A. was subject to backup withholding or

long-term residents. If you

notify the Department of State or the

Exceptions. You do not need to Department of Homeland Security (see

You were a nonresident alien satisfied both of the requirements

above. For more details, see Special on Form(s) 1042-S. On one of the

Former U.S. Long-Term Residents that agent incorrectly withheld at a rate of

begins on page 6 and Expatriation Tax 30% (instead of 15%). There were no

You can use this procedure only if you

effectively connected with the conduct Line 86. Enter the total amount of

of a U.S. trade or business. U.S. tax withheld at source (and not

Your U.S. income tax liability was refunded by the payer or withholding

fully satisfied through withholding of tax agent) for the income you included on

at source. lines 76a through 85.

You are filing Form 1040NR solely to Lines 87 through 89. Complete

payments, the withholding agent
the simplified procedure.
earlier for the tax year, complete Form
change the form to reflect the Page 1. Enter your name, identifying
blank.
! for a foreign trust, you may have Page 4, lines 76a through 85. Enter
withholding at source, you must include
all gross income of that type that you
received. The amount of each type of
income should be shown in the column
under the appropriate U.S. tax rate, if
any, that applies to that type of income
in your particular circumstances.
If you are entitled to a reduced rate
the income pursuant to a tax treaty, the
applicable rate of U.S. tax is the same
as the treaty rate. Use column (e) if the
applicable tax rate is 0%.
Example. Mary is a nonresident
alien individual. The only U.S. source
income she received during the year
was as follows.
4 dividend payments.
12 interest payments.
All payments were reported to Mary
from the sale of securities or regulated
Page 5. You must answer all
Example. John is a nonresident questions that apply. For item M, youPage 4 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

appropriate space. You must provide
the information required for each type basis for the claim.
of income for which a treaty claim is
made.
Note. If you are claiming a reduced
rate of, or exemption from, tax based stock because, in your particular
on a tax treaty, you must generally be a
resident of the particular treaty country
within the meaning of the treaty and
you cannot have a permanent
establishment or fixed base in the
United States. payment was (a) a complete
redemption, (b) a disproportionate
Page 2, lines 53 and 58. Enter your

mutual fund or REIT and provides the the “timely mailing as timely filing/
paying” rule for tax returns and
payments. These private delivery
If you are claiming an exemption
services include only the following.
from withholding on a distribution from
a U.S. corporation with respect to its DHL Express (DHL): DHL Same Day
Service, DHL Next Day 10:30 am, DHL
circumstances, the transaction qualifies Next Day 12:00 pm, DHL Next Day
as a redemption of stock under section 3:00 pm, and DHL 2nd Day Service.
302, you must attach a statement that Federal Express (FedEx): FedEx
describes the transaction and presents Priority Overnight, FedEx Standard
the facts necessary to establish that the Overnight, FedEx 2Day, FedEx
International Priority, and FedEx
International First.

redemption, or (c) not essentially United Parcel Service (UPS): UPS

total income tax liability.

equivalent to a dividend. Next Day Air, UPS Next Day Air Saver,

Line 66. Enter the total amount of
U.S. tax withheld (from line 86). When To File
Line 70. Add lines 59 through 69.
This is the total tax you have paid. Individuals.

UPS 2nd Day Air, UPS 2nd Day Air
A.M., UPS Worldwide Express Plus,
and UPS Worldwide Express.
If you were an employee The private delivery service can tell you

and received wages subject to U.S. how to get written proof of the mailing

Lines 71 and 72a. Enter the

income tax withholding, file Form date.

difference between line 58 and line 70.

1040NR by the 15th day of the 4th

This is your total refund.

month after your tax year ends. A Private delivery services cannot

You can have the refund deposited
in one or more accounts. See Lines by April 15, 2008.
72a through 72d— Direct deposit of
refund on page 24 for more details.

return for the 2007 calendar year is due ! deliver items to P.O. boxes. You
CAUTION must use the U.S. Postal
Service to mail any item to an IRS P.O.
If you did not receive wages as an
box address.
employee subject to U.S. income tax

Signature. You must sign and date withholding, file Form 1040NR by the

your tax return. See Reminders on

15th day of the 6th month after your tax Election To Be Taxed as

page 30. year ends. A return for the 2007

Documentation. You must attach
acceptable proof of the withholding for Estates and trusts.
which you are claiming a refund. If you
are claiming a refund of backup
withholding tax based on your status as
a nonresident alien, you must attach a
copy of the Form 1099 that shows the

calendar year is due by June 16, 2008. a Resident Alien
If you file for a You can elect to be taxed as a U.S.
nonresident alien estate or trust that resident for the whole year if all of the
has an office in the United States, file following apply.
the return by the 15th day of the 4th You were married.
month after the tax year ends. If you file Your spouse was a U.S. citizen or
for a nonresident alien estate or trust resident alien on the last day of the tax

income and the amount of backup that does not have an office in the year.

withholding. If you are claiming a refund
of U.S. tax withheld at source, you must
attach a copy of the Form 1042-S that ends.
shows the income and the amount of
Note.
U.S. tax withheld.
Additional Information
Portfolio interest. If you are claiming Extension of time to file.
a refund of U.S. tax withheld from
portfolio interest, include a description
of the relevant debt obligation, including
the name of the issuer, CUSIP number of the return.
(if any), interest rate, and the date the
Note.
debt was issued.

United States, file the return by the 15th
day of the 6th month after the tax year
If the regular due date for filing
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, file by the next business day.

You file a joint return for the year of
the election using Form 1040, 1040A,
or 1040EZ.
To make this election, you must attach
the statement described in Pub. 519 to
your return. Do not use Form 1040NR.

If you Your worldwide income for the whole

cannot file your return by the due date,
you should file Form 4868. You must
file Form 4868 by the regular due date
Form 4868 does not extend the
time to pay your income tax. The tax is

year must be included and will be taxed
under U.S. tax laws. You must agree to
keep the records, books, and other
information needed to figure the tax. If
you made the election in an earlier
year, you can file a joint return or
separate return for 2007. If you file a

Withholding on distributions. If you due by the regular due date of the

separate return, use Form 1040 or

are claiming an exemption from return.

Form 1040A. Your worldwide income

withholding on a distribution from a U.S.

for the whole year must be included

corporation with respect to its stock Where To File

whether you file a joint or separate

because the corporation had insufficient

return.Individuals. File Form 1040NR withearnings and profits to support dividend

treatment, you must attach a statement the Department of the Treasury,

Nonresident aliens who make

that identifies the distributing Internal Revenue Service Center,

corporation and provides the basis for Austin, TX 73301-0215 U.S.A.
the claim. Estates and trusts.
If you are claiming an exemption 1040NR with the Department of the

! this election may forfeit the right
CAUTION to claim benefits otherwise
File Form available under a U.S. tax treaty. For
more details, see the specific treaty.

from withholding on a distribution from Treasury, Internal Revenue Service

a mutual fund or real estate investment Center, Cincinnati, OH 45999-0048

trust (REIT) with respect to its stock U.S.A.
because the distribution was
designated as long-term capital gain or Private Delivery Services
a nondividend distribution, you must You can use certain private delivery
attach a statement that identifies the

Dual-Status Taxpayers
Note. If you elect to be taxed as a
resident alien (discussed earlier), the
special instructions and restrictions
services designated by the IRS to meet discussed here do not apply.
-4- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 5 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Dual-Status Tax Year
A dual-status year is one in which you
change status between nonresident
and resident alien. Different U.S.
income tax rules apply to each status.
Most dual-status years are the years
of arrival or departure. Before you
arrive in the United States, you are a
nonresident alien. After you arrive, you
may or may not be a resident,
depending on the circumstances.
If you become a U.S. resident, you
stay a resident until you leave the
United States. You may become a
nonresident alien when you leave if,
after leaving (or after your last day of
lawful permanent residency if you met
the green card test) and for the
remainder of the calendar year of your
departure, you have a closer
connection to a foreign country than to
the United States, and, during the next
calendar year, you are not a U.S.
resident under either the green card
test or the substantial presence test.
See Pub. 519.
What and Where to File for a
Dual-Status Year
If you were a U.S. resident on the last
day of the tax year, file Form 1040.
Enter “Dual-Status Return” across the
top and attach a statement showing
your income for the part of the year you
were a nonresident. You can use Form
1040NR as the statement; enter
“Dual-Status Statement” across the top.
Do not sign Form 1040NR. File your
return and statement with the

from all sources for the part of the year
conduct of a trade or business in the
United States is taxable.
Income you received as a
dual-status taxpayer from sources
outside the United States while a
is not taxable in most cases even if you
it and before the close of the tax year.
Taxpayers
part of the year you were a resident
alien.
return unless you elect to be taxed as a
resident alien (see the instructions on
page 4) in lieu of these dual-status

Special rules apply for exemptions
student or business apprentice from
India. See Pub. 519.
earned income credit, the credit for the
elderly or disabled, or an education
How To Figure Tax for
Dual-Status Year
All income for the period of
business in the United States for the
period of nonresidence, after allowable
deductions, is combined and taxed at
the same rates that apply to U.S.
citizens and residents. For the period of
residence, allowable deductions include
all deductions on Schedule A of Form
property taxes, and certain interest.
See the Instructions for Schedules A&B
(Form 1040).

Department of the Treasury, Internal taxpayer rules.

Revenue Service Center, Austin, TX
73301-0215 U.S.A.
If you were a nonresident on the last
day of the tax year, file Form 1040NR.
Enter “Dual-Status Return” across the
top and attach a statement showing
your income for the part of the year you
were a U.S. resident. You may use
Form 1040 as the statement; enter
“Dual-Status Statement” across the top.
Do not sign Form 1040. File your return
and statement with the Department of
the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service
Center, Austin, TX 73301-0215 U.S.A.
Statements. Any statement you file
with your return must show your name,
address, and identifying number
(defined on page 8).
Former U.S. long-term residents are
required to file Form 8854 with their
dual-status return for the last year of
U.S. residency. To determine if you are
a former U.S. long-term resident, see
the instructions that begin on page 6.
Income Subject to Tax for
Dual-Status Year
As a dual-status taxpayer not filing a
joint return, you are taxed on income
Instructions for Form 1040NR

or part of the tax year and you do not
make the election to be taxed as a
resident alien as discussed on page 4,
you must use the Married filing
separately column in the Tax Table or
Section C of the Tax Computation
Worksheet to figure your tax on income
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business. If married, you cannot use
the Single Tax Table column or Section
A of the Tax Computation Worksheet.
dual-status taxpayer, you usually will be
entitled to your own personal
exemption. Subject to the general rules
exemptions for your spouse and
dependents in figuring taxable income
for the part of the year you were a
resident alien. The amount you can
claim for these exemptions is limited to
your taxable income (determined
without regard to exemptions) for the
alien. You cannot use exemptions
(other than your own) to reduce taxable
income to below zero for that period.
-5-

Income that is not effectively
nonresidence is subject to the flat 30%
rate or lower treaty rate. No deductions
are allowed against this income.
If you were a resident alien on the
last day of the tax year and you are
filing Form 1040, include the tax on the
noneffectively connected income in the
total on Form 1040, line 63. To the left
of line 63 enter “Tax from Form
1040NR” and the amount.
the tax from the Tax Table, Tax
Computation Worksheet, Qualified
Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
allowed a credit against your U.S.
paid or are considered to have paid or
that were withheld from your income.
These include:

you were a resident alien. Generally,
you are taxed on income only from U.S.
sources for the part of the year you
were a nonresident alien. However, all
income effectively connected with the
resident alien is taxable even if you
became a nonresident alien after
receiving it and before the close of the
tax year. Conversely, income you
received from sources outside the
United States while a nonresident alien
became a resident alien after receiving
Income from U.S. sources is taxable
whether you received it while a
nonresident alien or a resident alien.
Restrictions for Dual-Status
Standard deduction. You cannot take
the standard deduction even for the
Head of household. You cannot use
the Head of household Tax Table
column or Section D of the Tax
Computation Worksheet.
Tax rates. If you were married and a
nonresident of the United States for all
Deduction for exemptions. As a
for qualification, you are allowed
part of the year you were a resident

for the part of the tax year a dual-status
taxpayer is a nonresident alien if the
taxpayer is a resident of Canada,
Mexico, or the Republic of Korea
(South Korea); a U.S. national; or a
credit unless you elect to be taxed as a
resident alien (see the instructions on
page 4) in lieu of these dual-status
taxpayer rules. For information on other
credits, see chapter 6 of Pub. 519.
When you figure your U.S. tax for a
dual-status year, you are subject to
different rules for the part of the year
year you were a nonresident.
residence and all income that is
effectively connected with a trade or
connected with a trade or business in
the United States for the period of
If you are filing Form 1040NR, enter
Worksheet, Schedule D Tax
income tax liability for certain taxes you

Tax credits. You cannot take the
you were a resident and the part of the
Joint return. You cannot file a joint 1040, including medical expenses, real
Worksheet, Schedule J (Form 1040), or
Form 8615 on line 41 and the tax on
the noneffectively connected income on
line 53.
Credit for taxes paid. You arePage 6 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

1. Tax withheld from wages earned in
the United States and taxes withheld
at the source from various items of
income from U.S. sources other than
wages. This includes U.S. tax
withheld on dispositions of U.S. real
property interests.
total tax withheld on line 64. Enter
amounts from the attached statement
(Form 1040NR, lines 59, 66, 67a,
67b, 68a, and 68b) in the column to
the right of line 64 and identify and
include in the amount on line 64.
total tax withheld on lines 59, 66,
amount from the attached statement
(Form 1040, line 64) in the column to
the right of line 59 and identify and
include in the amount on line 59.
2. Estimated tax paid with Form
1040-ES or Form 1040-ES (NR).
3. Tax paid with Form 1040-C at the
time of departure from the United
States. When filing Form 1040,
include the tax paid with Form
1040-C with the total payments on
line 72. Identify the payment in the
area to the left of the entry.
How To Report Income
on Form 1040NR
Community Income
If either you or your spouse (or both
you and your spouse) were nonresident
aliens at any time during the tax year
and you had community income during
the year, treat the community income
according to the applicable community
property laws except as follows.
Earned income of a spouse, other
than trade or business income or
partnership distributive share income.
The spouse whose services produced
the income must report it on his or her
separate return.
Trade or business income, other than
partnership distributive share income.
Treat this income as received by the
spouse carrying on the trade or
business and report it on that spouse’s
return.
Partnership distributive share income
(or loss). Treat this income (or loss) as
received by the spouse who is the
partner and report it on that spouse’s
return.
Income derived from the separate
property of one spouse that is not
earned income, trade or business
income, or partnership distributive

more details.
Kinds of Income
rate that applies to you. Report this
on U.S. source gross transportation
3.
22 on page 1.
See section 897 and its regulations.
disposition of U.S. real property
and Form 1040NR, line 14. Also, net
line 42.
Income You May Elect To
Treat as Effectively
You can elect to treat some items of
U.S. trade or business. The election
income from any interest in such
property. This includes:
such property or an interest therein.
or iron ore with a retained economic

See Pub. 555, Community Property, for
You must divide your income for the tax
year into the following three categories.
unless a treaty between your country
Income exempt from U.S. tax.
Complete items L and/or M on page 5
of Form 1040NR and, if applicable, line
real property interest (see Pub. 519 for
definition) is taxed as if the gain or loss
Report gains and losses on the
interests on Schedule D (Form 1040)
gains may be subject to the alternative
minimum tax. See the instructions for
Connected With a U.S. Trade
income as effectively connected with a
applies to all income from real property
located in the United States and held
for the production of income and to all
Gains from the sale or exchange of
Gains on the disposal of timber, coal,

The election does not apply to
dispositions of U.S. real property
interests discussed earlier.
To make the election, attach a
statement to your return for the year of
the election. Include in your statement:
improvements to the property.
election.
United States
You may be required to report some
income from foreign sources on your
U.S. return if it is effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business. For this
or business, you must have an office or
other fixed place of business in the
including a list of the types of foreign
source income that must be treated as
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business, see Pub. 519.
Special Rules for Former
U.S. Citizens and Former
U.S. Long-Term
Residents
The expatriation tax provisions provide
an alternative tax regime for certain
citizenship or terminated U.S. long-term
resident status. In 2004, the
expatriation rules that determine
whether you are subject to this
alternative tax regime changed. If you
expatriated on or before June 3, 2004,
one set of rules applies. If you
expatriated after June 3, 2004, another
set of rules applies. See the rules on
this page and the next two pages that
apply to you.
Former U.S. long-term resident

share income. The spouse with the interest.

separate property must report this
income on his or her separate return.

Rents and royalties from mines, oil or
gas wells, or other natural resources.

long-term resident if you were a lawful
permanent resident of the United States

1. Income effectively connected with 1. That you are making the election.

When filing Form 1040, show the a U.S. trade or business. This income

is taxed at the same rates that apply to property, or any interest in real

U.S. citizens and residents. Report this property, located in the United States

income on page 1 of Form 1040NR. (including location). Give the legal

Pub. 519 describes this income in identification of U.S. timber, coal, or

greater detail. iron ore in which you have an interest.

2. U.S. income not effectively

connected with a U.S. trade or the real property.

When filing Form 1040NR, show the business. This income is taxed at 30%

67a, 67b, 68a, and 68b. Enter the and the United States has set a lower

income on page 4 of Form 1040NR. property.

Pub. 519 describes this income more 7. Whether the election is under

fully. section 871(d) or a tax treaty.

Note. Use line 56 to report the 4% tax and revocations of the real property

income.

Dispositions of U.S. Real

Property Interests foreign income to be treated as

Gain or loss on the disposition of a U.S. effectively connected with a U.S. trade

were effectively connected with the United States to which the income can

conduct of a U.S. trade or business. be attributed. For more information,

See Pub. 519 for more details.

or Business nonresident aliens who lost U.S.

2. A complete list of all of your real
3. The extent of your ownership in
4. A description of any substantial
5. Your income from the property.
6. The dates you owned the
8. Details of any previous elections
Foreign Income Taxed by the
Expatriation Tax
defined. You are a former U.S.
-6- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 7 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

(green-card holder) in at least 8 of the
last 15 consecutive tax years ending
with the year your residency ends. In
determining if you meet the 8-year
requirement, do not count any year that
you were treated as a resident of
another country under a tax treaty and
you did not waive treaty benefits.
Expatriation Before June 4,
2004
The alternative tax regime will apply to
you for the 10 succeeding tax years
following the year of your expatriation if
one of the principal purposes of your
action was to avoid U.S. taxes. You are
considered to have tax avoidance as a
principal purpose if:

IF you expatriated
during . . .
1997
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004 (before

Inflation-Adjusted Amounts for Expatriation Actions Before June 4, 2004
THEN the rules outlined on this page apply
if . . .
Your 5-year
$106,000
110,000
112,000
116,000
120,000
122,000

Your net
worth
equaled or
$528,000
552,000
562,000
580,000
599,000
608,000

1. Your average annual net income June 4)*

tax for the last 5 tax years ending

before the date of your action to

relinquish your citizenship or terminate

your residency was more than

$100,000, or

2. Your net worth on the date of

your action was $500,000 or more.

The amounts above are adjusted for

inflation if your expatriation action is

after 1996 (see the chart on this page).
For more details, see Notice 97-19,
1997-1 C.B. 394; and Notice 98-34,
1998-2 C.B. 29. You can find Notice
97-19 on page 40 of Internal Revenue
Bulletin 1997-10 at www.irs.gov/pub/
irs-irbs/irb97-10.pdf. You can find

tax obligations for the last 5 tax years
have been met.
Inflation-Adjusted Amounts for

alternative tax regime under the

expatriation tax provisions applies to
you, check the “Yes” box in item P on
Form 1040NR, page 5, and attach a
completed Form 8854 (Parts I and III of
You must attach the form for each of

Notice 98-34 on page 30 of Internal IF you

Revenue Bulletin 1998-27 at www.irs. expatriated

gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb98-27.pdf.

Annual information statement. If the
alternative tax regime under the
expatriation tax provisions apply to you,
check the “Yes” box in item P on Form
1040NR, page 5. You also must attach
an annual information statement to
Form 1040NR that lists by category (for

than ...
2004
June 3)*

average annual net
income tax was more
Penalty.

If you fail to file a required
Form 8854 for any tax year or fail to
include all information required to be
shown on the form, you may have to

example, dividends, interest, etc.) all 2005

items of U.S. and foreign source gross 2006

income (whether or not taxable in the 2007

United States). The statement must
identify the source of such income
(determined under section 877 as
modified by Section V of Notice 97-19)
and those items of income subject to
tax under section 877. You must attach
the statement to Form 1040NR,
whether or not you owe any U.S. tax.
Expatriation After June 3,
2004
The alternative tax regime will apply to
you for the 10 succeeding tax years
following the year of your expatriation if
any one of the following apply.
tax for the last 5 tax years ending
before the date of your action to
relinquish your citizenship or terminate
your residency was more than
$124,000. This amount is adjusted for
Instructions for Form 1040NR

Exception for dual citizens and
certain minors.
certain minors are not subject to the
expatriation tax even if they meet (1) or
the certification required in (3) above.
For the definitions of “dual citizens” and
“certain minors,” see Pub. 519.
Exception if in the United States for
more than 30 days.
alternative tax regime does not apply to
if you are physically present in the
United States for more than 30 days
during the calendar year ending in that
year. You must file Form 1040, 1040A,
or 1040EZ, and figure your tax as
-7-

show that the failure to file the
cause.
How To Figure Your
Dual citizens and
Expatriation Provisions
Generally, the
imposed under section 871(a).

to you whether you expatriated before
June 4, 2004, or after June 3, 2004.
to you, you are subject to tax on U.S.
either (a) a net basis at the graduated
allowable deductions), or (b) a gross
basis at a rate of 30% (or lower treaty
rate) under the rules of section 871(a).
See page 29 for more details on the tax

average annual

was more

than ...

1998 109,000 543,000

*If you expatriated after June 3, 2004, see Expatriation After June 3, 2004 on this page.

inflation if your expatriation is after prescribed in the instructions for those

2004 (see the chart below). forms. For details, see Tax

2. Your net worth on the date of consequences of presence in the

your action was $2,000,000 or more.

3. You fail to certify under penalties June 3, 2004, Pub. 519.

of perjury that all of your U.S. federal Annual information statement. If the

ending before the date of your action

Expatriation Actions After June 3, 2004 Schedules A and B) to your tax return.

outlined on this page year that includes your date of

for Form 8854.

(after $124,000

*If you expatriated before June 4, 2004, see

(2) above. However, they must provide Note. The following discussion applies

1. Your average annual net income any tax year during the 10-year period

net income tax OR
exceeded ...
124,000 622,000
United States under Expatriation After
THEN the rules the 10 tax years beginning with the
during ... apply if your 5-year expatriation, whether or not you owe
U.S. tax. For more details regarding the
filing of Form 8854, see the Instructions
127,000 pay a penalty in the amount of $10,000
131,000 for each required Form 8854. You will
136,000 not have to pay the penalty if you can
Expatriation Before June 4, 2004 on this page. completed form was due to reasonable
Alternative Tax Under the
If the alternative tax regime applies
source gross income and gains on
rates applicable to individuals (withPage 8 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

If you have items of U.S. source
income that are subject to tax under
section 871(a), you will be taxed at a
rate of 30% (or lower treaty rate) on
your gross income only if this tax
exceeds the tax at the regular
graduated rates on your net income. If
the 30% (or lower treaty rate) tax on
your gross income exceeds the
graduated tax on your net income,
report those items on the appropriate
lines on page 4 of Form 1040NR. If the
graduated tax on your net income
exceeds the 30% (or lower treaty rate)
tax on your gross income, report your
income on the appropriate lines on
page 1 of Form 1040NR and attach a
statement describing the items and
amounts of income that are subject to
tax by reason of section 877.
If you have other items of U.S.
source income that are not subject to
tax under section 871(a), you will be
taxed on a net basis at the regular
graduated rates applicable to
individuals. Report this income on the
appropriate lines on page 1 of Form
1040NR.
For purposes of figuring the tax due
under section 877, the following items
of income are treated as U.S. source.
1. Gains on the sale or exchange of
personal property located in the United
States.
2. Gains on the sale or exchange of
stock issued by a domestic corporation
or debt obligations of the United States,
U.S. persons, a state or political
subdivision thereof, and the District of
Columbia.
3. Income or gain derived from
stock in a foreign corporation if you
owned, either directly or indirectly
(through the rules of sections 958(a)
and 958(b)), more than 50% of the vote
or value of the stock of the corporation
on the date of your renunciation of
citizenship or termination of residency
or at any time during the 2 years
preceding such date. Such income or
gain is considered U.S. source only to
the extent of your share of the earnings
and profits earned or accumulated prior
to the date of renunciation of U.S.
citizenship or termination of residency.
Any exchange of property is treated
as a sale of the property at its fair
market value on the date of the
exchange and any gain is treated as

Form 1040NR
Identifying Number
you are filing Form 1040NR for an
Foreign address.
Identifying number.

Line Instructions for
for an estate or trust, enter the name of
to Form 1040NR with your name, title,
address, and the name and address of
any U.S. grantors and beneficiaries. If
estate or trust engaged in a trade or
business in the United States during
2007, give the names and addresses of
Enter the
information in the following order: City,
province or state, and country. Follow
the country’s practice for entering the
If you are an
If you do not have and are not
for an individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN). For details on how to do
so, see Form W-7 and its instructions. It
usually takes about 4–6 weeks to get

benefits or change your employment or
immigration status under U.S. law.
If you are filing Form 1040NR for an
reduce your refund.
(for example, F, J, M, etc.) you used to
enter the United States.
Filing Status
which box to check, read the following
Were you single or married? If you
were married on December 31,
year. If you were single, divorced, or
legally separated under a decree of
divorce or separate maintenance on
U.S. national. A U.S. national is an
individual who, although not a U.S.
citizen, owes his or her allegiance to
the United States. U.S. nationals
include American Samoans and
Northern Mariana Islanders who chose
to become U.S. nationals instead of
U.S. citizens.
Married persons who live apart.
Some married persons who have a
child and who do not live with their
spouse can file as single. If you meet
all five of the following tests and you
are a married resident of Canada or
Mexico, or you are a married U.S.
national, check the box on line 1. If you
meet the tests below and you are a
married resident of the Republic of
line 2.

U.S. source gross income in the tax an ITIN.

year of the exchange unless you enter
into a gain recognition agreement under
Notice 97-19.
Most U.S. tax treaties do not prevent
the United States from continuing to tax
former citizens and former LTRs under
domestic law. Unless the treaty
prevents it, you will be subject to the
rules of section 877.

and cannot get an SSN, enter that
person’s ITIN.
Note.

If you already have an ITIN, enter it
wherever your SSN is requested on
your tax return. If you are required to
include another person’s SSN on your
return and that person does not have
AnITIN is for tax use only. It
does not entitle you to social security

during the last 6 months of 2007.
Temporary absences for special
circumstances, such as for business,
medical care, school, or military
service, count as time lived in the
home.
your child, stepchild, or foster child for

Name, Address, and
all beneficiaries.

EIN, see Form SS-4 and its

P.O. box. Enter your box number only explanations.

to your home.

postal code. Do not abbreviate the
country name.
individual, you generally are required to
enter your social security number
(SSN). To apply for this number, get
Form SS-5, Application for a Social
Security Card, from your local Social
Security Administration (SSA) office or
SSA’s website at
www.socialsecurity.gov/online/
ss-5.html. You must visit an SSA office
along with original documentation
status, and authority to work in the
needs.
eligible to get an SSN, you must apply

December 31, consider yourself single
for the whole year. If you meet the tests
live apart below, you may consider
yourself single for the whole year.
If your spouse died in 2007, consider
yourself married to that spouse for the
whole year, unless you remarried
before the end of 2007.
Korea (South Korea), check the box on

the estate or trust. Attach a statement Entry visa. Enter the type of U.S. visa
if your post office does not deliver mail
call the SSA at 1-800-772-1213. You
can also download Form SS-5 from the
in person and submit your Form SS-5
showing your age, identity, immigration
United States. If you are an F-1 or M-1
student, you also must show your Form
I-20. If you are a J-1 exchange visitor,
you will also need to show your Form
DS-2019. Generally, you will receive
your card about 2 weeks after the SSA
has all the evidence and information it

estate or trust, enter the employer
identification number (EIN) of the estate
or trust. For details on how to get an
instructions.
An incorrect or missing identifying
Name. If you are filing Form 1040NR number may increase your tax or
The amount of your tax depends on
your filing status. Before you decide
consider yourself married for the whole
described under Married persons who
1. You file a return separate from
your spouse.
2. You paid more than half the cost
to keep up your home in 2007.
3. You lived apart from your spouse
4. Your home was the main home of
-8- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 9 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

more than half of 2007. Temporary
absences, such as for school, vacation,
or medical care, count as time lived in
the home.
5. You are able to claim a
dependency exemption for the child or
the child’s other parent claims him or
her as a dependent under the rules for
children of divorced or separated
parents. See Form 8332, Release of
Claim to Exemption for Child of
Divorced or Separated Parents.
Adopted child. An adopted child is
always treated as your own child. An
adopted child includes a child lawfully
placed with you for legal adoption.
Foster child. A foster child is any
child placed with you by an authorized
placement agency, or by judgment,
decree, or other order of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
Line 6 — Qualifying widow(er) with
dependent child. You can check the
box on line 6 if all seven of the following
apply.
1. You were a resident of Canada,
Mexico, or the Republic of Korea
(South Korea), or were a U.S. national.
2. Your spouse died in 2005 or
2006 and you did not remarry before
the end of 2007.
3. You have a child or stepchild
whom you claim as a dependent. This
does not include a foster child.
4. This child lived in your home for
all of 2007. Temporary absences, such
as for school, vacation, or medical care,
count as time lived in the home.
5. You paid over half the cost of
keeping up your home.
6. You were a resident alien or U.S.
citizen the year your spouse died. This
refers to your actual status, not the
election that some nonresident aliens
can make to be taxed as U.S.
residents.
7. You were entitled to file a joint
return with your spouse the year he or
she died, even if you did not actually do
so.
Exemptions
Exemptions for estates and trusts are
described in the instructions for line 39
on page 18.
Note. Residents of India who were
students or business apprentices may
be able to claim exemptions for their
spouse and dependents. See Pub. 519
for details.
Line 7b— Spouse. If you checked
filing status box 3 or 4, you can take an
exemption for your spouse only if your
spouse had no gross income for U.S.
tax purposes and cannot be claimed as
a dependent on another U.S.
taxpayer’s return. (You can do this
Instructions for Form 1040NR

even if your spouse died in 2007.) In
4, your spouse must have lived with
is not eligible to obtain an SSN, he or
she must apply for an ITIN. See
Identifying number
additional information.
nationals and residents of Canada,
the same terms as U.S. citizens. See
resident of the Republic of Korea
(South Korea), you can claim an
lived with you in the United States at
some time during 2007. Be sure to
of your dependents. If you have more
than four dependents, attach a
statement to your return with the
required information.
!
501.
8332 for details.
Other dependent children.
Include the total number of children
number (SSN, ITIN, or adoption
If you do not enter the correct
identifying number, at the time we
credit) based on the dependent.
TIP dependent can get an
Identifying number

addition, if you checked filing status box
you in the United States at some time
have an SSN or an ITIN. If your spouse
on page 8 for
your children and other dependents on
Pub. 501 for more details. If you were a
complete item I on page 5 of the form.
You can take an exemption for each
For additional information on
whether you can claim an
taxpayer identification number (ATIN)).
other tax benefits (such as the child tax
identifying number, see
on page 8.
If your dependent child was born
and died in 2007 and you do not have
an identifying number for the child, you
-9-

may attach a copy of the child’s birth
certificate instead and enter “Died” in
column (2).
Adoption taxpayer identification
dependent who was placed with you by
an authorized placement agency and
you do not know his or her SSN, you
from the IRS. An authorized placement
by state law to place children for legal
Line 7c, column (4). Check the
box in this column if your dependent is
a qualifying child for the child tax credit
Qualifying child for child tax
Was under age 17 at the end of
2007.
resident alien.
school, vacation, or medical care, count
as time lived in the home.
An adopted child is always treated as
your own child. An adopted child
includes a child lawfully placed with you
for legal adoption.
Rounding Off to Whole
Dollars
dollar. For example, $1.39 becomes $1
If you have to add two or more
amounts to figure the amount to enter
Trade or Business
Pub. 519 explains how income is
classified and what income you should
report here. The instructions for this

during 2007. Finally, your spouse must
Mexico, and the Republic of Korea
(South Korea) can claim exemptions for
their dependents. If you were a U.S.
national or a resident of Canada or
Mexico, you can claim exemptions for
exemption for any of your children who
CAUTION exemption for a dependent, see
Exemptions for Dependents in Pub.
Children who did not live with you
due to divorce or separation. If you
checked filing status box 1 or 3 and are
claiming as a dependent a child who
did not live with you under the rules for
children of divorced or separated
parents, attach Form 8332 or similar
statement to your return. See Form
who did not live with you for reasons
other than divorce or separation on the
line labeled “Dependents on 7c not
entered above.”
Line 7c, column (2). You must
enter each dependent’s identifying
process your return we may disallow
the exemption claimed for the
dependent and reduce or disallow any
For details on how your

numbers (ATINs). If you have a
adoption. See Form W-7A for details.
credit. A qualifying child for purposes
own support for 2007.
Lived with you more than half of
You may round off cents to whole
dollars on your return and schedules. If
you do round to whole dollars, you
must round all amounts. To round, drop
on a line, include cents when adding
the amounts and round off only the
total.
Income Effectively

must get an ATIN for the dependent
Line 7c — Dependents. Only U.S. agency includes any person authorized
(defined below). If you have at least
one qualifying child, you may be able to
take the child tax credit on line 47 and
the additional child tax credit on line 62.
of the child tax credit is a child who:
Is your son, daughter, stepchild,
foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother,
stepsister, or a descendant of any of
them (for example, your grandchild,
niece, or nephew).
Is a U.S. citizen, a U.S. national, or a
Did not provide over half of his or her
2007. Temporary absences, such as for
amounts under 50 cents and increase
amounts from 50 to 99 cents to the next
and $2.50 becomes $3.
Connected With U.S.Page 10 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

section assume you have decided that

the income involved is effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or
business in which you were engaged.
But your decision may not be easy.
Interest, for example, may be effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or
business, it may not be, or it may be
tax-exempt. The tax status of income
also depends on its source. Under
some circumstances, items of income
from foreign sources are treated as
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business. Other items are reportable
as effectively connected or not
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business, depending on how you
elect to treat them.
Line 8 — Wages, salaries, tips, etc.
Enter the total of your effectively
connected wages, salaries, tips, etc.
For most people, the amount to enter
on this line should be shown in their
Form(s) W-2, box 1. However, do not
include on line 8 amounts exempted
under a tax treaty. Instead, include
these amounts on line 22 and complete
item M on page 5 of Form 1040NR.
Services performed partly inside
and partly outside the United States.
If you performed services as an
employee both inside and outside the
United States, you must allocate your
compensation between U.S. and
non-U.S. sources. Only the U.S. source

specific fringe benefit for which an
alternative basis is used.
2. For each such item, the
alternative basis of allocation of source
used.
computation showing how the
alternative allocation was computed.
4. A comparison of the dollar
amount of the compensation sourced
within and without the United States
under both the alternative basis and the
time or geographical basis for
determining the source.
Also include on line 8:
Wages received as a household
employee for which you did not receive
a Form W-2 because your employer
paid you less than $1,500 2007.
Also, enter “HSH” and the amount not
reported on a Form W-2 on the dotted
line next to line 8.
Tip income you did not report to your
employer. Also include allocated tips
shown on your Form(s) W-2 unless you
can prove that you received less.
Allocated tips should be shown in your
Form(s) W-2, box 8. They are not
included as income in box 1. See Pub.

Form W-2.
A higher limit may apply to
compensation plans for the 3 years
before retirement age. Contact your
You cannot deduct the amount
! deferred. It is not included as
CAUTION income in your Form W-2,
box 1.
Disability pensions shown on Form
1042-S or Form 1099-R if you have not
reached the minimum retirement age
set by your employer. Disability
pensions received after you reach that
age and other payments shown on
Form 1042-S or Form 1099-R (other
than payments from an IRA*) are

income is included on line 8 as 531 for more details.

effectively connected wages.

Compensation (other than certain
fringe benefits) generally is sourced on
a time basis. To figure your U.S. source
income, divide the number of days you
performed labor or personal services
within the United States by the total
number of days you performed labor or
personal services within and without the
United States. Multiply the result by
your total compensation (other than
certain fringe benefits).
Certain fringe benefits (such as
housing and educational expenses) are
sourced on a geographic basis. The
source of the fringe benefit
compensation generally is your

may be able to exclude amounts if you
adopted a child with special needs and
the adoption became final in 2007. See
the Instructions for Form 8839 to find
out if you can exclude part or all of the

on lines 16a and 16b.
Wages from Form 8919, line 6.
on line 8. If you lose your Form W-2 or
it is incorrect, ask your employer for a
new one.

principal place of work. The amount of benefits.

the fringe benefit compensation must
be reasonable and you must keep
records that are adequate to support
the fringe benefit compensation.
However, you may be able to use an
alternative basis to determine the
source of your compensation if the
alternative basis more properly
determines the source of the
compensation. For 2007, if your total
compensation is $250,000 or more and
you allocate your compensation using
an alternative basis, check the box in
item R on page 5. In addition, attach to
Form 1040NR a statement that
contains the following information.

Excess salary deferrals. The amount
deferred should be shown in your Form
W-2, box 12, and the “Retirement plan”
total amount you deferred for 2007
under all plans was more than $15,500
(excluding catch-up contributions as
explained below), include the excess on
line 8. This limit is (a) $10,500 if you
only have SIMPLE plans, or (b)
$18,500 for section 403(b) plans, if you
qualify for the 15-year rule in Pub. 571.
Although designated Roth contributions
are subject to this limit, do not include
the excess attributable to such
contributions on line 8. They already

If you received interest not
See Pub. 901 for a quick reference
guide to the provisions of U.S. tax
treaties.
In addition, interest from a U.S.
bank, savings and loan association,

You must keep documentation showing

why the alternative basis more properly

determines the source of the

compensation.

You may owe social security
! and Medicare tax on unreported
CAUTION or allocated tips. See the
instructions for line 54 on page 22.

Instead, report distributions from an IRA
*This includes a Roth, SEP, or

Dependent care benefits, which SIMPLE IRA.

should be shown in your Form(s) W-2,
box 10. But first complete Form 2441 to
see if you can exclude part or all of the
benefits.
Employer-provided adoption benefits,
which should be shown in your Form(s)
W-2, box 12, with code T. You also
box in box 13 should be checked. If the

Missing or incorrect Form W-2.
Your employer is required to provide or
send Form W-2 to you no later than
January 31, 2008. If you do not receive
it by early February, ask your employer
for it. Even if you do not get a Form
W-2, you still must report your earnings

1. The specific compensation or the are included as income in box 1 of your
participants in section 457(b) deferred
3. For each such item, a plan administrator for more information.
If you were age 50 or older at the
end of 2007, your employer may have
allowed an additional deferral (catch-up
contribution) of up to $5,000 ($2,500 for
section 401(k)(11) and SIMPLE plans).
This additional deferral amount is not
subject to the overall limit on elective
deferrals.
reported on lines 17a and 17b.
Payments from an IRA are reported on
lines 16a and 16b.
Corrective distributions from a
retirement plan shown on Form 1042-S
or Form 1099-R of excess salary
deferrals and excess contributions (plus
earnings). But do not include
distributions from an IRA* on line 8.
Line 9a — Taxable interest. Report
on line 9a all of your taxable interest
income from assets effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or
business.
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business, report it on Form 1040NR,
page 4, unless it is tax exempt under a
treaty and the withholding agent did not
withhold tax on the payment. If the
interest is tax exempt under a treaty,
complete item M on page 5.
-10- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 11 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

credit union, or similar institution, and

dividends not reported on Form

from certain deposits with U.S. 1099-DIV.

insurance companies, is tax exempt to

a nonresident alien if it is not effectively

connected with a U.S. trade or
business.
Interest credited in 2007 on deposits
that you could not withdraw because of
the bankruptcy or insolvency of the
financial institution may not have to be
included in your 2007 income. For
details, see Pub. 550.
Line 9b— Tax-exempt interest.
Certain types of interest income from
investments in state and municipal
bonds and similar instruments are not
taxed by the United States. If you
received such tax-exempt interest
income, report the amount on line 9b.
Include any exempt-interest dividends
from a mutual fund or other regulated
investment company. Do not include
interest earned on your IRA or
Coverdell education savings account.
Also do not include interest from a U.S.
bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, or similar institution (or
from certain deposits with U.S.
insurance companies) that is exempt
from tax under a tax treaty or under
section 871(i) because the interest is
not effectively connected with a U.S.
trade or business.
Line 10a — Ordinary dividends.
Enter your total ordinary dividends from
assets effectively connected with a U.S.
trade or business. Each payer should
send you a Form 1099-DIV.
Capital gain distributions. If you
received any capital gain distributions,
see the instructions for line 14 on page
12.
distributions are a return of your cost
(or other basis). They will not be taxed
until you recover your cost (or other
basis). You must reduce your cost (or
other basis) by these distributions. After

be reported as qualified dividends in
Form 1099-DIV, box 1b, but are not
date. The ex-dividend date is the first
date following the declaration of a
dividend on which the purchaser of a
stock is not entitled to receive the next
dividend payment. When counting the
number of days you held the stock,
include the day you disposed of the
stock but not the day you acquired it.
See the examples below. Also, when
counting the number of days you held
the stock, you cannot count certain
days during which your risk of loss was
diminished. See Pub. 550 for more
details.
Dividends attributable to periods
totaling more than 366 days that you
received on any share of preferred
stock held for less than 91 days during
the 181-day period that began 90 days
before the ex-dividend date. When
counting the number of days you held
rule above.
Dividends on any share of stock to
the extent that you are under an
obligation (including a short sale) to
positions in substantially similar or
related property.
Payments in lieu of dividends, but
only if you know or have reason to
know that the payments are not

July 6, 2007, through September 6,
2007). The $500 of qualified dividends
shown in Form 1099-DIV, box 1b, are
all qualified dividends because you held
the stock for 61 days of the 121-day
period (from July 6, 2007, through
shares of ABC Mutual Fund common
stock on June 28, 2007. ABC Mutual
Fund paid a cash dividend of 10 cents
a share. The ex-dividend date was July
6, 2007. The ABC Mutual Fund advises
you that the portion of the dividend
eligible to be treated as qualified
dividends equals 2 cents per share.
Your Form 1099-DIV from ABC Mutual
Fund shows total ordinary dividends of
$1,000 and qualified dividends of $200.
However, you sold the 10,000 shares
on August 1, 2007. You have no
qualified dividends from ABC Mutual
Fund because you held the ABC
Mutual Fund stock for less than 61
days.
Be sure you use the Qualified
Worksheet or the Schedule D
Tax Worksheet, whichever applies, to
figure your tax. Your tax may be less.
See the instructions for line 41
beginning on page 18 for details.
or offsets of state and local income
or offset of state or local income taxes
1099-G. If you chose to apply part or all
of the refund to your 2007 estimated
state or local income tax, the amount
applied is treated as received in 2007.

you get back all of your cost (or other qualified dividends.

basis), you must report these

distributions as capital gains on

Schedule D (Form 1040). For details,

see Pub. 550.

Dividends on insurance policies
TIP are a partial return of the
premiums you paid. Do not
report them as dividends. Include them
in income only if they exceed the total
of all net premiums you paid for the
contract.
Line 10b— Qualified dividends.
Enter your total qualified dividends on
line 10b. Qualified dividends are eligible
for a lower tax rate than other ordinary
income. Generally, these dividends are
shown in your Form(s) 1099-DIV, box
1b. See Pub. 550 for the definition of

ex-dividend date was July 6, 2007.
Your Form 1099-DIV from XYZ Corp.
June 29, 2007, through August 1,
2007). The 121-day period began on
May 7, 2007 (60 days before the
ex-dividend date), and ended on
September 4, 2007. You have no
qualified dividends from XYZ Corp.
because you held the XYZ stock for

taxable.
board, and travel are generally taxable.

qualified dividends if you received less than 61 days.

Instructions for Form 1040NR

-11-

qualified dividends. These include:

Dividends you received as a

nominee. See chapter 1 in Pub. 550.

Dividends you received on any share

of stock that you held for less than 61

days during the 121-day period that

began 60 days before the ex-dividend

the stock, you cannot count certain

days during which your risk of loss was

diminished. See Pub. 550 for more

details. Preferred dividends attributable

to periods totaling less than 367 days

are subject to the 61-day holding period

Nondividend distributions. Some make related payments with respect to

Example 1. You bought 5,000 Recoveries Pub. 525.

shares of XYZ Corp. common stock on Line 12 — Scholarship and fellowship

June 28, 2007. XYZ Corp. paid a cash grants. If you received a scholarship

dividend of 10 cents per share. The or fellowship, part or all of it may be

shows $500 in box 1a (ordinary If you were a degree candidate, the

dividends) and in box 1b (qualified amounts you used for expenses other

dividends). However, you sold the than tuition and course-related

5,000 shares August 1, 2007. You expenses (fees, books, supplies, and

held your shares of XYZ Corp. for only equipment) are generally taxable. For

days of the 121-day period (from example, amounts used for room,

Exception. Some dividends may the stock on July 5, 2007 (the day
before the ex-dividend date), and you
sold the stock on September 6, 2007.
You held the stock for 63 days (from
September 4, 2007).
Example 3. You bought 10,000
TIP Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
Line 11 — Taxable refunds, credits,
taxes. If you received a refund, credit,
in 2007, you may receive a Form
For details on how to figure the
amount you must report as income, see
If you were not a degree candidate,
the full amount of the scholarship or
fellowship is generally taxable. Also,
amounts received in the form of a
scholarship or fellowship that are
payment for teaching, research, or
other services are generally taxable as

Example 2. Assume the same facts
as in Example 1 except that you boughtPage 12 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

wages even if the services were
required to get the grant.
If the grant was reported on
Form(s) 1042-S, you must generally
include the amount shown in Form(s)
1042-S, box 2, on line 12. However, if
any or all of that amount is exempt by
treaty, do not include the treaty-exempt
amount on line 12. Instead, include the
treaty-exempt amount on line 22 and
complete item M on page 5 of Form
1040NR.
Attach any Form(s) 1042-S you
received from the college or institution.
If you did not receive a Form 1042-S,
attach a statement from the college or
institution (on their letterhead) showing
the details of the grant.
For more information about
scholarships and fellowships in general,
see Pub. 970.
Example 1. You are a citizen of a
country that has not negotiated a tax
treaty with the United States. You are a
candidate for a degree at ABC
University (located in the United
States). You are receiving a full
scholarship from ABC University. The
total amounts you received from ABC
University during 2007 are as follows:
Tuition and fees $25,000
Books, supplies,
and equipment 1,000
Room and
board 9,000
The Form 1042-S you received from
ABC University for 2007 shows $9,000
in box 2 and $1,260 (14% of $9,000) in
box 7.
Note. Box 2 shows only $9,000
because withholding agents (such as

the tax treaty, all of your scholarship
income is exempt from tax because
an exemption from tax on scholarship
or fellowship grant income unless the
income is from sources outside the
United States. If you are a resident of a
treaty country, you must know the
terms of the tax treaty between the
United States and the treaty country to
claim treaty benefits on Form 1040NR.
See the instructions for item M on page
30 for details.
When completing Form 1040NR:
Enter $0 line 12. The $9,000
reported to you in box 2 of
line 12).
Enter $9,000 on line 22.
Provide all the required information in
item M on page 5.
commodities through your U.S. office. If
you dealt in these items through an
independent agent, such as a U.S.
broker, custodian, or commissioned
agent, your income may not be
considered effectively connected with a

None of the Form(s) 1099-DIV or
substitute statements have an amount
If both of the above apply, enter your
effectively connected capital gain
distributions (from box 2a of Form(s)
1099-DIV) on line 14 and check the box
on that line. If you received capital gain
distributions as a nominee (that is, they
were paid to you but actually belong to
someone else), report on line 14 only
the amount that belongs to you. Attach
a statement showing the full amount
you received and the amount you
received as a nominee. See chapter 1
of Pub. 550 for filing requirements for
If you do not have to file
TIP Schedule D (Form 1040), be
sure you use the Qualified
Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
Worksheet on page 19 to figure your
tax. Your tax may be less if you use this
worksheet.
you sold or exchanged assets used in a
U.S. trade or business, see the
Instructions for Form 4797.
otherwise noted in the line 16a and 16b
traditional IRA, Roth IRA, simplified
employee pension (SEP) IRA, and a
savings incentive match plan for
employees (SIMPLE) IRA. Except as

ABC University) are not required to U.S. business.

report section 117 amounts (tuition,
fees, books, supplies, and equipment)
on Form 1042-S.
When completing Form 1040NR:
Enter on line 12 the $9,000 shown in
box 2 of Form 1042-S.
Enter $0 on line 30. Because
section 117 amounts (tuition, fees,
books, supplies, and equipment) were
not included in box 2 of your Form
1042-S (and are not included on line 12
of Form 1040NR), you cannot exclude
any of the section 117 amounts on line
30.
Include on line 59 the $1,260 shown

Line 14 — Capital gain or (loss). If
you had effectively connected capital
gains or losses, including any
effectively connected gain or (loss) from
Schedule (Form 1040) line 14.
Gains and losses from disposing of
U.S. real property interests are reported
on Schedule D (Form 1040) and
included on line 14 of Form 1040NR.

distribution on line 16a if you rolled over
part or all of the distribution from one:
Also, enter “Rollover” next to line
16b. If the total distribution was rolled
over in a qualified rollover, enter -0- on
line 16b. If the total distribution was not
rolled over in a qualified rollover, enter
the part not rolled over on line 16b

in box 7 of Form 1042-S. Interests on page 6.

Example 2. The facts are the same

as in Example 1 except that you are a

Schedule D (Form 1040) if both of the

citizen of a country that has negotiated following apply.

a tax treaty with the United States and
you were a resident of that country
immediately before leaving for the
United States to attend ABC University.
Also, assume that, under the terms of

The only amounts you have to report
on Schedule D (Form 1040) are
effectively connected capital gain
distributions from Form(s) 1099-DIV,
box 2a, or substitute statements.

If you rolled over the distribution (a)
in 2008, or (b) from an IRA into a
qualified plan (other than an IRA),

ABC University is a nonprofit in box 2b (unrecaptured section 1250

educational organization. gain), box 2c (section 1202 gain), or

Note. Many tax treaties do not permit box 2d (collectibles (28%) gain).

Form 1042-S is reported on line 22 (not Forms 1099-DIV and 1096.

Enter $0 on line 30. Because none of

the $9,000 reported to you in box 2 of

Form 1042-S is included in your

income, you cannot exclude it on

line 30.

Include on line 59 any withholding

Line 13 — Business income or (loss).

If you operated a business or practiced Lines 16a and 16b— IRA

your profession as a sole proprietor, distributions. You should receive a

report your effectively connected Form 1099-R showing the amount of

income and expenses on Schedule C any distribution from your individual

or Schedule C-EZ (Form 1040). retirement arrangement (IRA). Unless

$35,000 Include any income you received as

a dealer in stocks, securities, and

effectively connected capital gain IRA to another IRA of the same type

distributions, or a capital loss carryover (for example, from one traditional IRA

from 2006, you must complete and to another traditional IRA), or

attach Schedule D (Form 1040). But SEP or SIMPLE IRA to a traditional

see the Exception below. Enter the IRA.

See Dispositions of U.S. Real Property unless Exception 2 applies to the part

Exception. You do not have to file

shown in box 7 of Form 1042-S. Line 15 — Other gains or (losses). If
instructions, an IRA includes a
provided below, leave line 16a blank
and enter the total distribution on
line 16b.
Exception 1. Enter the total
not rolled over. Generally, a qualified
rollover must be made within 60 days
after the day you received the
distribution. For more details on
rollovers, see Pub. 590, Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs).
-12- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 13 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

attach a statement explaining what you
did.
Exception 2. If any of the following
apply, enter the total distribution on
line 16a and see Form 8606 and its
instructions to figure the amount to
enter on line 16b.
You received a distribution from an
IRA (other than a Roth IRA) and you
made nondeductible contributions to
any of your traditional or SEP IRAs for
2007 or an earlier year. If you made
nondeductible contributions to these
IRAs for 2007, also see Pub. 590.
You received a distribution from a
Roth IRA. But if either 1 or 2 below
applies, enter -0- on line 16b; you do
not have to see Form 8606 or its
instructions.
1. Distribution code T is shown in
Form 1099-R, box 7, and you made a
contribution (including a conversion) to
a Roth IRA for 2002 or an earlier year.
Form 1099-R, box 7.
You converted part or all of a
traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA to a
Roth IRA in 2007.
You had a 2006 or 2007 IRA
contribution returned to you, with the
related earnings or less any loss, by the
due date (including extensions) of your
tax return for that year.
You made excess contributions to
your IRA for an earlier year and had
them returned to you in 2007.
You recharacterized part or all of a
contribution to a Roth IRA as a
traditional IRA contribution, or vice
versa.
Exception 3. If the distribution is a
qualified charitable distribution (QCD),
enter the total distribution on line 16a. If
the total amount distributed is a QCD,
enter -0- on line 16b. If only part of the
distribution is a QCD, enter the part that
is not a QCD on line 16b unless
Exception 2 applies to that part. Enter
“QCD” next to line 16b.

Exception 4.
AnHFD is a distribution made
directly by the trustee of your IRA
(other than a SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to
elect to exclude an HFD from your
income once in your lifetime. You
cannot exclude more than the limit on
Pub. 590 for details.
!
the 12 months following the month of
the HFD, you may have to report the
HFD as income and pay an additional
tax. See Form 8889, Part III.
distribution, figure the taxable amount
of the taxable amounts on line 16b.
Enter the total amount of those
distributions on line 16a.

If the distribution is a
qualified health savings account (HSA)
your HSA. If eligible, you generally can
The amount of an HFD reduces
the amount you can contribute
fail to maintain eligibility for an HSA for

earnings) of excess salary deferrals or
If you received a Form 1042-S
TIP or 1099-R that shows federal
income tax withheld, attach it to
Form 1040NR.
United States, your income generally is
effectively connected with the conduct
of a U.S. trade or business. (See
section 864 for details and exceptions.)
When you receive a pension in a later
fully taxable, enter it on line 17b; do not
make an entry on line 17a. Your
payments are fully taxable if (a) you did
page 14) of your pension or annuity, or
(b) you got your entire cost back tax
free before 2007.
If you received a Form RRB-1099-R,
see Pub. 575 for information on how to
Partially taxable pensions and
annuity payments you received in 2007
on line 17a. If your Form 1042-S or
Form 1099-R does not show the
taxable amount, you must use the
General Rule explained in Pub. 939,
Annuities, to figure the taxable part to
enter on line 17b. But if your annuity
starting date (defined below) was after
July 1, 1986, see Simplified method
that begins below to find out if you must
use that method to figure the taxable

A QCD is a distribution made directly 22 for details.

by the trustee of your IRA (other than a
SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to an organization
eligible to receive tax-deductible
contributions (with certain exceptions).
You must have been at least age 70¹/2
when the distribution was made. Your
total QCDs for the year cannot be more
than $100,000. The amount of the QCD
is limited to the amount that otherwise
would be included in your income. If
your IRA includes nondeductible
contributions, the distribution first is
considered to be paid out of otherwise
taxable income. See Pub. 590 for
details.
You cannot claim a charitable
CAUTION QCD not included in your
income.
Instructions for Form 1040NR

Lines 17a and 17b— Pensions and
annuities.
report effectively connected pension
and annuity payments you received.
You should receive a Form 1042-S or
1099-R showing the amount of your
pension and annuity payments,
403(b) plans. For details on rollovers
14 and 15. But if this income is not
effectively connected with your U.S.
trade or business, report it on line 82.
Instead, report them on line 8.
set by your employer.

Use lines 17a and 17b to
including distributions from 401(k) and
and lump-sum distributions, see pages
-13-

You can ask the IRS to figure the
details, see Pub. 939.
If your Form 1099-R shows a taxable
amount, you can report that amount on
line 17b. But you may be able to report
a lower taxable amount by using the
General Rule or the Simplified Method.
If you received Form 1042-S, you must
figure the taxable part by using the
General Rule or the Simplified Method.
plan’s obligations became fixed.
starting date (defined above) was after

funding distribution (HFD), enter the excess contributions to retirement

total distribution on line 16a. If the total plans. The plan must advise you of the

amount distributed is an HFD and you year(s) the distributions are includible in

elect to exclude it from income, enter income.

-0- on line 16b. If only part of the

exclude that part from income, enter

unless Exception 2 applies to that part.

Enter “HFD” next to line 16b. Some annuities are tax-exempt. See

HSA contributions or more than the year as a result of effectively connected

amount that otherwise would be services, the pension also may be

included in your income. If your IRA considered effectively connected with

includes nondeductible contributions, the conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

Distribution code Q is shown in the HFD is first considered to be paid

CAUTION an early distribution from your

and received less than the minimum

required distribution from your

traditional, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs.

Do not include the following first day of the first period for which you

payments on lines 17a and 17b. received a payment or the date the

distribution is an HFD and you elect to
the part that is not an HFD on line 16b
Note. If you received more than one report your benefits.
of each distribution and enter the total annuities. Enter the total pension or
You may have to pay an
! additional tax if (a) you received General Rule for Pensions and
IRA and the total was not rolled over, or
(b) you were born before July 1, 1936,
See the instructions for line 55 on page
contribution deduction for any Disability pensions received before

Corrective distributions (including any
chapter 3 of Pub. 519.
Note. If you performed services in the
Fully taxable pensions and
out of otherwise taxable income. See annuities. If your pension or annuity is
CAUTION to your HSA for the year. If you not contribute to the cost (defined on
part.
taxable part for you for a $380 fee. For
Annuity starting date. Your
annuity starting date is the later of the
Simplified method. You must use
you reach the minimum retirement age the Simplified Method if (a) your annuityPage 14 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

July 1, 1986, and you used this method November 18, 1996, and both of the
last year to figure the taxable part, or following apply.
(b) your annuity starting date was after
Simplified Method Worksheet — Lines
17a and 17b Keep for Your Records

The payments are from a qualified
employee plan, a qualified employee
annuity, or a tax-sheltered annuity.
On your annuity starting date, either
you were under age 75 or the number
of years of guaranteed payments was
fewer than 5. See Pub. 575 for the
definition of guaranteed payments.

Before you begin: If you are the beneficiary of a deceased employee or former employee

If you must use the Simplified Method,

who died before August 21, 1996, include any death benefit exclusion

that you are entitled to (up to $5,000) in the amount entered on line 2
below.

complete the worksheet on this page to
figure the taxable part of your pension
or annuity. For more details on the
Simplified Method, see Pub. 575.

Note. If you had more than one partially taxable pension or annuity, figure the taxable part of each

separately. Enter the total of the taxable parts on Form 1040NR, line 17b. Enter the total pension
or annuity payments received in 2007 on Form 1040NR, line 17a.
Enter the total pension or annuity payments received in 2007. Also, enter this
amount on Form 1040NR, line 17a
Enter your cost in the plan at the annuity starting date 2.
Note. If you completed this worksheet last year, skip line 3 and
enter the amount from line 4 of last year’s worksheet on line 4
below (even if the amount of your pension or annuity has
changed). Otherwise, go to line 3
Enter the appropriate number from Table 1 below. But if your
annuity starting date was after 1997 and the payments are for
your life and that of your beneficiary, enter the appropriate
number from Table 2 below 3.
Divide line 2 by the number on line 3 4.
Multiply line 4 by the number of months for which this year’s
payments were made. If your annuity starting date was before
1987, skip lines 6 and 7 and enter this amount on line 8.
Otherwise, go to line 6 5.
6. Enter the amount, if any, recovered tax free in years after
1986. If you completed this worksheet last year, enter the
amount from line 10 of last year’s worksheet 6.
Subtract line 6 from line 2 7.
8. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7
Taxable amount. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result, but not less than
zero. Also, enter this amount on Form 1040NR, line 17b. If your Form 1042-S
or Form 1099-R shows a larger amount, use the amount on this line instead of
the amount from Form 1042-S or Form 1099-R
10. Was your annuity starting date before 1987?
Yes. STOP Leave line 10 blank.
No. Add lines 6 and 8. This is the amount you have recovered tax
free through 2007. You will need this number when you fill out
this worksheet next year.
Table 1 for Line 3 Above
IF the age at AND your annuity starting date was —
annuity starting

Age (or combined ages) at annuity
starting date. If you are the retiree,
use your age on the annuity starting
date. If you are the survivor of a retiree,
1. use the retiree’s age on his or her
annuity starting date. But if your annuity
starting date was after 1997 and the
payments are for your life and that of
your beneficiary, use your combined
ages on the annuity starting date.
If you are the beneficiary of an
employee who died, see Pub. 575. If
there is more than one beneficiary, see
Pub. 575 to figure each beneficiary’s
taxable amount.
Cost. Your cost is generally your
net investment in the plan as of the
annuity starting date. It does not
include pre-tax contributions. Your net
investment should be shown in Form
1099-R, box 9b, for the first year you
8. received payments from the plan. You
must figure your net investment if you
received Form 1042-S.
Rollovers. Generally, a qualified
9.
rollover is a tax-free distribution of cash
or other assets from one retirement
plan that is contributed to another plan
within 60 days of receiving the
distribution. Use lines 17a and 17b to
report a qualified rollover, including a
10. direct rollover, from one qualified
employer’s plan to another or to an IRA
or SEP.
Enter on line 17a the total
distribution before income tax or other

before November 19, 1996, after November 18, 1996, deductions were withheld. This amount

date (see page

was . . . enter on line 3 . . . enter on line 3 . . .

55 or under 300

56 – 60 260

61 – 65 240

66 – 70 170

71 or older 120

Table 2 for Line 3 Above

IF the combined

ages at annuity

starting date

(see page 13)

were . . . THEN enter on line 3 . . .

110 or under

111 – 120

121 – 130

131 – 140

141 or older

-14-

should be shown in Form 1099-R, box

1, or Form 1042-S, box 2. From the

360

total on line 17a, subtract any

310

contributions (usually shown in box 5 of

260

Form 1099-R or figured by you if you

210

received Form 1042-S) that were

160

taxable to you when made. From that

result, subtract the amount of the

qualified rollover. Enter the remaining

amount, even if zero, on line 17b. Also

enter “Rollover” next to line 17b.

Special rules apply to partial

rollovers of property. For more details

410 on rollovers, including distributions

360 under qualified domestic relations

310 orders, see Pub. 575.

260 Lump-sum distributions. If you

210 received a lump-sum distribution from a

profit-sharing or retirement plan, your

Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 15 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Form 1099-R should have the “Total
distribution” box in box 2b checked.
You need to determine this on your
own if you received Form 1042-S. You
may owe an additional tax if you
received an early distribution from a
qualified retirement plan and the total
amount was not rolled over in a

have to be reported on Form 1040NR.
See Pub. 970.

You may be able to deduct expenses
that are more than the $250 limit on
Schedule A, line 9. An eligible educator
is a kindergarten through grade 12
or aide in a school for at least 900
hours during a school year.
Qualified expenses include ordinary

qualified rollover. For details, see the Taxable distributions from a

instructions for line 55 on page 22. health savings account (HSA) or an

Enter the total distribution on line
17a and the taxable part on line 17b.
You may be able to pay less tax
TIP on the distribution if you were
born before January 2, 1936, or
you are the beneficiary of a deceased
employee who was born before
January 2, 1936. For details, see Form
4972.
Line 20 — Unemployment
compensation. You should receive a
Form 1099-G showing in box 1 the total
unemployment compensation paid to
you in 2007. Report the amount in box
1 on line 20. However, if you made
contributions to a governmental
unemployment compensation program

if (a) they are more than the
!
from an HSA because you did not
remain an eligible individual during

HSA or an Archer MSA may be taxable equipment (including computer
equipment, software, and services),
classroom. An ordinary expense is one
that is common and accepted in your
educational field. A necessary expense
is one that is helpful and appropriate for
your profession as an educator. An
You may have to pay an expense does not have to be required
additional tax if you received a to be considered necessary.
Qualified expenses do not include
You must reduce your qualified
Amounts deemed to be income expenses by the following amounts.
Excludable U.S. series EE and I
savings bond interest from Form 8815.

and you are not itemizing deductions, the testing period. See Form 8889,

reduce the amount you report on line
20 by those contributions.
If you received an overpayment of

Part III.
Recapture of a charitable
the contribution of a fractional

earnings or distributions.
Any nontaxable distribution of

unemployment compensation in 2007 interest in tangible personal

and you repaid any of it in 2007,

subtract the amount you repaid from Tangible Personal Property in Pub.

the total amount you received. Enter 526, Charitable Contributions. Interest

the result on line 20. Also, enter
“Repaid” and the amount you repaid on
the dotted line next to line 20. If, in
2007, you repaid unemployment
compensation that you included in
gross income in an earlier year, you
can deduct the amount repaid on
Schedule A (Form 1040NR), line 11.
But if you repaid more than $3,000, see
Repayments in Pub. 525 for details on

amount of the recapture. See the

For more details, see Pub. 529.
Line 25 — Health savings account
take this deduction if contributions
(other than employer contributions,
rollovers, and qualified HSA funding
distributions from an IRA) were made to
your HSA for 2007. See Form 8889.

how to report the repayment. Canceled debts. These amounts

Line 21 — Other income. Use this line

to report any other income effectively gov and enter “canceled debt” or

connected with your U.S. business that
is not reported elsewhere on your
return or other schedules. List the type
and amount of income. If necessary,
show the required information on an
attached statement. For more details,
see Miscellaneous Income in
Pub. 525. The following are examples
of income to report on line 21.
Taxable distributions from a
Coverdell education savings account
(ESA) or a qualified tuition program
(QTP). Distributions from these
accounts may be taxable if (a) they are
more than the qualified higher
education expenses of the designated
beneficiary in 2007, and (b) they were
not included in a qualified rollover.

“foreclosure” in the search box.
Use line 22 to report your total
effectively connected income that is
Adjusted Gross Income
were an eligible educator in 2007, you

generates effectively connected
income.
If you moved in connection with your
job or business or started a new job,
you may be able to take this deduction.
But your new workplace must be at
home than your old home was from
your old workplace. If you had no
former workplace, your new workplace
must be at least 50 miles from your old
home. The deduction is generally
limited to moves to or within the United
States or its possessions. If you meet
these requirements, see Pub. 521. Use
Form 3903 to figure the amount to
Line 27 — Self-employed SEP,

Nontaxable distributions from these can deduct on line 24 up to $250 of

accounts, including rollovers, do not
Instructions for Form 1040NR

qualified expenses you paid in 2007.

were self-employed or a partner, you
-15-

You may have to pay an
CAUTION taxable distribution from a
Coverdell ESA or a QTP. See the
Instructions for Form 5329.
Archer MSA. Distributions from an
unreimbursed qualified medical
expenses of the account beneficiary or
account holder in 2007, and (b) they
were not included in a qualified rollover.
See Pub. 969.
CAUTION taxable distribution from an HSA
or Archer MSA. See the Instructions for expenses for home schooling or for
Form 8889 for HSAs and the nonathletic supplies for courses in
Instructions for Form 8853 for Archer health or physical education.
MSAs.
contribution deduction relating to Coverdell education savings account
and an additional 10% tax apply to the
Recapture of a charitable
contribution deduction if the
charitable organization disposes of
the donated property within 3 years
of the contribution. See Recapture if
no exempt use in Pub. 526. Line 26 — Moving expenses.
may be shown in box 2 of Form
Report other income on page 4 of
Form 1040NR if not effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or
business.
Line 22 — Treaty-exempt income. least 50 miles farther from your old
exempt from tax by a tax treaty. Do not
include this exempt income on line 23.
Also, you must complete item M on
page 5 of Form 1040NR.
Line 24 — Educator expenses. If you enter on this line.

! additional tax if you received a teacher, instructor, counselor, principal,
and necessary expenses paid in
connection with books, supplies,
and other materials used in the
Nontaxable qualified tuition program
earnings.
Any reimbursements you received for
property. See Fractional Interest in these expenses that were not reported
to you in Form W-2, box 1.
instructions for line 41 on page 18. (HSA) deduction. You may be able to
Employees and self-employed persons
(including partners) can deduct certain
1099-C. See Pub. 525 or go to www.irs. moving expenses. The move must be in
connection with employment that
SIMPLE, and qualified plans. If youPage 16 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

may be able to take this deduction. See
Pub. 560 or, if you were a minister,
Pub. 517.
Line 28 — Self-employed health
insurance deduction. If you were
self-employed and had a net profit for
the year, you may be able to deduct the
amount you paid for health insurance
for yourself, your spouse, and your
dependents. The insurance plan must
be established under your business.
But if you were also eligible to
participate in any subsidized health
plan maintained by your or your
spouse’s employer for any month or
part of a month in 2007, amounts paid
for health insurance coverage for that
month cannot be used to figure the
deduction. For example, if you were
eligible to participate in a subsidized
health plan maintained by your
spouse’s employer from September 30
through December 31, you cannot use
amounts paid for health insurance
coverage for September through
December to figure your deduction. For
more details, see Pub. 535.
Note. If, during 2007, you were an
eligible trade adjustment assistance

Any health coverage tax credit
advance payments shown in box 1 of
Form 1099-H.
amount you can deduct.
of the worksheet below to figure your
deduction if either of the following
applies.
Line 30 — Scholarship and fellowship
grants excluded. If you received a
instructions for line 12 on page 12.

contributions to your traditional IRA for
2007. See Pub. 590 to figure the
amount, if any, of your IRA deduction.
profit-sharing (including 401(k)),
through self-employment, your IRA
deduction may be reduced or
eliminated. But you can still make
contributions to an IRA even if you
cannot deduct them. In any case, the
income earned on your IRA
contributions is not taxed until it is paid
to you.
were covered by a plan at work even if
you were not vested in the plan. You
also are covered by a plan if you were
self-employed and had a SEP,
See Pub. 590 for more details.

(TAA) recipient, alternative TAA Line 31 — IRA deduction.

recipient, or Pension Benefit Guaranty

Corporation (PBGC) pension recipient,
you must complete Form 8885 before
completing the worksheet below. When

TIP contributions to a traditional
individual retirement
arrangement (IRA) for 2007, you must

instructions for line 48 beginning on
page 20.

figuring the amount to enter on line 1 of report them on Form 8606.

the worksheet below, do not include:

Any amounts you included on Form
8885, line 4,
Any qualified health insurance
premiums you paid to “U.S.
Treasury-HCTC,” or
Self-Employed Health Insurance

traditional IRA for 2007, you may be
able to take an IRA deduction. But you
must have had earned income to do so.
A statement should be sent to you by
May 31, 2008, that shows all

deduction only if all of the following
apply.
You paid interest in 2007 on a
qualified student loan (see below).
You checked filing status box 1, 2, or

Deduction Worksheet— Line 28 Keep for Your Records

Before you begin:
1. Enter the total amount paid in 2007 for health insurance coverage
established under your business for 2007 for you, your spouse,
and your dependents. But do not include amounts for any month
you were eligible to participate in an employer-sponsored health
plan
2. Enter your net profit and any other earned income* from the
business under which the insurance plan is established, minus any

If, during 2007, you were an eligible trade adjustment
1.

You are not claimed as a dependent
loan you took out to pay the qualified
higher education expenses for any of
the following individuals.
1. Yourself or your spouse.
2. Any person who was your
dependent when the loan was taken
out.

deduction you claim on Form 1040NR, line 27 2.

3. Self-employed health insurance deduction. Enter the smaller of

line 1 or line 2 here and on Form 1040NR, line 28 3.

property you created. However, it does not include capital gain income.

b. The person had gross income

If you qualify to take the deduction, plan? If you were covered by a
use the worksheet below to figure the retirement plan (qualified pension,
You had more than one source of
income from self-employment.
You are using amounts paid for
qualified long-term care insurance to
figure the deduction.
Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID you
received will show the amount of any
penalty you were charged.
assistance (TAA) recipient, alternative TAA recipient, or on someone else’s (such as your
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) pension parent’s) 2007 tax return.
recipient, see the Note above.
Be sure you have read the Exception above to see if you
can use this worksheet instead of Pub. 535 to figure your figure your student loan interest
deduction. deduction.
*Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of

Were you covered by a retirement

Exception. Use Pub. 535 instead
Line 29 — Penalty on early
withdrawal of savings. The
scholarship or fellowship grant and
were a degree candidate, enter
amounts used for tuition and
course-related expenses (fees, books,
supplies, and equipment), but only to
the extent the amounts are included on
line 12. See the examples in the
If you made any nondeductible
If you made contributions to a

annuity, SEP, SIMPLE, etc.) at work or
The “Retirement plan” box in Form
W-2, box 13, should be checked if you
SIMPLE, or qualified retirement plan.
Special rule for married
individuals. If you checked filing
status box 3, 4, or 5 and you were not
covered by a retirement plan but your
spouse was, you are considered
covered by a plan unless you lived
apart from your spouse for all of 2007.
You may be able to take the
TIP retirement savings contributions
credit (saver’s credit). See the
Line 32 — Student loan interest
deduction. You can take this
6.
Your modified adjusted gross income
(AGI) is less than $70,000. Use lines 2
through 4 of the worksheet on page 17
to figure your modified AGI.
Use the worksheet on page 17 to
Qualified student loan. This is any
3. Any person you could have
claimed as a dependent for the year the
loan was taken out except that:
a. The person filed a joint return,
that was equal to or more than the

-16- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 17 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

exemption amount for that year ($3,400
for 2007), or
dependent on someone else’s return.

Any scholarship, educational
excluded from income.

assistance allowance, or other payment

or
water you produced in the United

The person for whom the expenses see Pub. 970.

were paid must have been an eligible

student (see this page). However, a

loan is not a qualified student loan if (a)

any of the proceeds were used for
other purposes, or (b) the loan was
from either a related person or a person
who borrowed the proceeds under a
qualified employer plan or a contract
purchased under such a plan. To find
out who is a related person, see Pub.
970.
Qualified higher education expenses
generally include tuition, fees, room and
board, and related expenses such as
books and supplies. The expenses
must be for education in a degree,
certificate, or similar program at an
eligible educational institution. An
eligible educational institution includes
most colleges, universities, and certain
vocational schools. You must reduce
the expenses by the following benefits.
Employer-provided educational
assistance benefits that are not
included in Form(s) W-2, box 1.
Excludable U.S. series EE and I
savings bond interest from Form 8815.
Any nontaxable distribution of
qualified tuition program earnings.
Any nontaxable distribution of
Coverdell education savings account
earnings.
Student Loan Interest Deduction
Worksheet — Line 32
Before you begin:

or other program (including a program
of study abroad that was approved for
credit by the institution at which the
student was enrolled) leading to a
eligible educational institution, and
Carried at least half the normal
study he or she was pursuing.
Line 33 — Domestic production
able to deduct up to 6% of your
qualified production activities income
from the following activities.
2.
exchange, or other disposition of:
produced, grew, or extracted in whole
or in significant part within the United
States;
Figure any amount to be entered on the dotted line next

Was enrolled in a degree, certificate,
recognized educational credential at an
Engineering or architectural
Keep for Your Records

prepare at a retail establishment;
Property you leased, licensed, or
rented for use by any related person;
The transmission or distribution of
electricity, natural gas, or potable water;
or
The lease, rental, license, sale,
any of the following write-in
adjustments that are related to your
effectively connected income. To find
out if you can take the deduction, see
Performing-arts-related expenses
(see Form 2106 or 2106-EZ). Identify
as “QPA.”
Reforestation amortization and
Identify as “Sub-Pay TRA.”
Contributions to section
525). Identify as “501(c)(18)(D).”

An eligible student is a person who: The sale of food and beverages you
1. Construction of real property the form or publication indicated. On
performed in the United States. the dotted line next to line 34, enter the
services performed in the United States as indicated.
United States. Archer MSA deduction (see Form
3. Any lease, rental, license, sale, 8853). Identify as “MSA.”

c. You could be claimed as a (but not gifts, inheritances, etc.)
For more details on these expenses,
full-time workload for the course of
for construction of real property in the
a. Tangible personal property,
computer software, and sound
recordings that you manufactured,

b. Any qualified film you produced;
c. Electricity, natural gas, or potable
States.
The deduction does not apply to
income derived from:
exchange, or other disposition of land.
For details, see Form 8903 and its
instructions.
activities deduction. You may be Line 34. Include in the total on line 34
amount of your deduction and identify it
expenses (see Pub. 535). Identify as
“RFST.”
Repayment of supplemental
unemployment benefits under the
Trade Act of 1974 (see Pub. 525).
501(c)(18)(D) pension plans (see Pub.

to line 34 (see the instructions for line 34 on this page). Contributions by certain chaplains to

See the instructions for line 32 that begin on page 16. section 403(b) plans (see Pub. 517).

1. Enter the total interest you paid in 2007 on qualified student loans Attorney fees and court costs for
3. Enter the total of the amounts from Form 1040NR,
you entered on the dotted line next to line 34 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 4.
5. Is line 4 more than $55,000?
No. Skip lines 5 and 6, enter -0- on line 7, and go the IRS for information you provided
to line 8. after December 19, 2006, that
Yes. Subtract $55,000 from line 4 5.
6. Divide line 5 by $15,000. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at detection of tax law violations, up to the
8. Student loan interest deduction. Subtract line 7 from line 1. Enter
the result here and on Form 1040NR, line 32. Do not include this
amount in figuring any other deduction on your return (such as on line 35 is less than zero, you may have
Schedule A (Form 1040NR), Schedule C (Form 1040), Schedule E a net operating loss that you can carry
Instructions for Form 1040NR -17-

(see page 16). Do not enter more than $2,500 1.
2. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 23 2.
lines 24 through 31, plus any write-in adjustments
least three places). If the result 1.000 more, enter 1.000 6. .

7. Multiply line 1 by line 6 7.
(Form 1040), etc.) 8.

Identify as “403(b).”
actions settled or decided after October
22, 2004, involving certain unlawful
discrimination claims, but only to the
extent of effectively connected gross
income from such actions (see Pub.
525). Identify as “UDC.”
Attorney fees and court costs paid by
you in connection with an award from
substantially contributed to the
amount of the award includible in your
gross income. Identify as “WBF.”
Line 35 — Adjusted gross income. If
to another tax year. See Form 1045
and its instructions for details.Page 18 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Tax Computation on business. checked filing status box 6.
Income Effectively estate, enter $600 on line 39.
Trade or Business exemptions entered on line 7d. If you to distribute all of its income currently,
Line 37 — Itemized deductions. for a qualified disability trust (defined in
Enter the total itemized deductions from section 642(b)(2)(C)(ii)), enter $3,400
line 17 of Schedule A on page 3 of the on line 39. But if the qualified disability
form. trust’s modified AGI (determined under
Note. Residents of India who were
students or business apprentices may must complete item I on page 5 of the
be able to take the standard deduction form. (For details, see Pub. 519.) But
instead of their itemized deductions. use the worksheet on this page to
See Pub. 519 for details. figure the amount, if any, to enter on
Line 39 — Deduction for exemptions. from line 36 is more than $156,400 if
You can claim exemptions only to the you checked filing status box 1 or 2; line 41 all of the following taxes that
extent of your income that is effectively $117,300 if you checked filing status apply.
Deduction for Exemptions described on this page and the next
Worksheet — Line 39 page.
See the instructions for line 39 on page Tax from Form 8814 (relating to the

connected with a U.S. trade or box 3, 4, or 5; or $234,600 if you
Individuals. If you are a
Connected With A U.S. nonresident alien individual, multiply
$3,400 by the total number of whose governing instrument requires it
were a resident of the Republic of enter $300 on line 39. If you are filing
Korea (South Korea), you must figure
the exemptions for your spouse and
children according to the proportion
your U.S. effectively connected income
line 39 if your adjusted gross income

Estates. If you are filing for an
Trusts. If you are filing for a trust
bears to your total income. You also section 67(e) without regard to section
642(b)) is more than $156,400, use the
worksheet on this page to figure the
amount to enter on line 39. If you are
filing for any other trust, enter $100 on
line 39.
Line 41 — Tax. Include in the total on
Tax on your taxable income. Figure
the tax using one of the methods

Keep for Your Records election to report child’s interest or

Caution: If you are filing for a qualified disability trust (on this page), use this
worksheet only if the trust’s modified AGI* is more than $156,400. Also, skip line 1,
enter $3,400 on line 2, enter the trust’s modified AGI on line 3, and enter $156,400 on
line 4.
Is the amount on Form 1040NR, line 36, more than the amount shown on line 4
below for your filing status?
No. Stop. Multiply $3,400 by the total number of exemptions
claimed on Form 1040NR, line 7d, and enter the
result on Form 1040NR, line 39.
Yes. Go to line 2.
Multiply $3,400 by the total number of exemptions claimed on
Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 36 . . . 3.
4. Enter the amount shown below for the filing status
box you checked on page 1 of Form 1040NR:
Box 1 or 2, enter $156,400
Box 3, 4, or 5, enter $117,300
Box 6, enter $234,600 4.
Subtract line 4 from line 3. 5.
6. Is line 5 more than $122,500 ($61,250 if you
checked filing status box 3, 4, or 5)?
Yes. Multiply $1,133 by the total number of
exemptions claimed on Form 1040NR,
line 7d. Enter the result here and on
Form 1040NR, line 39. Do not complete
the rest of this worksheet.
No. Divide line 5 by $2,500 ($1,250 if
you checked filing status box 3, 4,

Tax from Form 4972 (relating to
lump-sum distributions). Check the
appropriate box.
Tax from Form 8889, Part III (relating
charitable contribution deduction
relating to the contribution of a
fractional interest in tangible personal
property. See the instructions for line
21 on page 15. Enter the amount and
estate or trust, use the Tax Rate
Schedules on page 47.
Individuals. If your taxable income
use the correct column. If you checked
filing status box 3, 4, or 5, you must use
your taxable income is $100,000 or
more, use the Tax Computation
Tax Computation Worksheet, or Tax
Rate Schedules to figure your tax if

or 5). If the result is not a whole either of the following applies.

number, increase it to the next
higher whole number (for example,
increase 0.0004 1) 6.
Multiply line 6 by 2% (.02) and enter the result as a decimal
8. Multiply line 2 by line 7

You are required to figure your tax
using Form 8615, the Qualified
7. .
8. D Tax Worksheet.

result here and on Form 1040NR, line 39 10. tax.

the trust’s modified AGI by applying section 67(e) without regard to section
642(b).

Form 8615. You generally must use
Form 8615 to figure the tax for any

Form 1040NR, line 7d 2.
Divide line 8 by 1.5 9.
Deduction for exemptions. Subtract line 9 from line 2. Enter the

dividends). Check the appropriate box.
to health savings accounts). Check the
appropriate box.
Additional tax on recapture of a
“FITPP” in the space next to line 41.
Tax Table or Tax Computation
Worksheet. If you are filing for an
(line 40) is less than $100,000, you
must use the Tax Table that begins on
page 34 to figure your tax. Be sure you
the Married filing separately column. If
Worksheet on page 46.
Exception. Do not use the Tax Table,
Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
Worksheet on page 19, or the Schedule
You use Schedule J (Form 1040) (for
farming or fishing income) to figure your
child who was under age 18 at the end
Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 19 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

of 2007, and who had more than
$1,700 of investment income, such as
taxable interest, ordinary dividends, or
capital gains (including capital gain
distributions), that is effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or
business. But if the child files a joint
return for 2007 or if neither of the
child’s parents was alive at the end of
2007, do not use Form 8615 to figure
the child’s tax. Also, a child born on
January 1, 1990, is considered to be
age 18 at the end of 2007. Do not use
Form 8615 for such a child.
and Schedule D, line 18 or line 19, is
more than zero, use the Schedule D
Tax Worksheet on page D-10 of the
Instructions for Schedule D to figure
your tax.
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain
Tax Worksheet. If you do not have to
use the Schedule D Tax Worksheet
(see above) and any of the following
apply, use the worksheet below to
figure your tax.
You reported qualified dividends on
Form 1040NR, line 10b.
Before you begin:
your tax.

You do not have to file Schedule D
(Form 1040) and you reported capital
gain distributions on Form 1040NR, line
14.
You are filing Schedule D and
Schedule D, lines 15 and 16, are both
more than zero.
Line 42 — Alternative minimum tax.
The tax law gives special treatment to
a minimum amount of tax through the
alternative minimum tax. This tax is
figured on Form 6251 for individuals. If
you are filing for an estate or trust, see
Schedule I (Form 1041) and its
instructions to find out if you owe this
tax.
If you have any of the adjustments or
preferences from the list on this page
and the next page or you are claiming a
net operating loss deduction, a general
business credit, or the foreign tax
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet — Line 41
See the instructions for line 41 that begin on page 18 to see if you can use this worksheet to figure

credit, you must complete Form 6251.
Otherwise, to see if you should
complete Form 6251, add the amount
on line 38 of Form 1040NR to the
amounts on lines 3 and 15 of Schedule
A (Form 1040NR). If the total is more
than the dollar amount shown below
that applies to you, fill in Form 6251.
$33,750 if you checked filing status
box 1 or 2.
$22,500 if you checked filing status
box 3, 4, or 5.
$45,000 if you checked filing status
box 6.
would increase the amounts above. To
find out if this legislation was enacted,
and for more details, see the
Instructions for Form 6251.
Disposition of U.S. real property
real property interest at a gain, you
must make a special computation to
see if you owe this tax. For details, see
the Instructions for Form 6251.
Adjustments and Preferences:
Accelerated depreciation.
Keep for Your Records

Schedule J (Form 1040). If you had
income from farming or fishing, your tax
may be less if you choose to figure it
using income averaging on Schedule J.
some kinds of income and allows
Schedule D Tax Worksheet. If you special deductions and credits for some
have to file Schedule D (Form 1040) kinds of expenses. If you benefit from
these provisions, you may have to pay CAUTION considering legislation that

At the time these instructions
! went to print, Congress was
interests. If you disposed of a U.S.

If you do not have to file Schedule D (Form 1040) and you received capital gain distributions, be sure

1. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 40
2. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 10b 2.
3. Are you filing Schedule D (Form 1040)?
Yes. Enter the smaller of line 15 or 16 of Schedule D. If either }

you checked the box on line 14 of Form 1040NR.

1.

No. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 14.
4. Add lines 2 and 3 4.
5. Subtract line 4 from line 1. If zero or less, enter -0-
6. Enter the smaller of:
The amount on line 1, or
$31,850 if you checked filing status box 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; or }

5.

7. Is the amount on line 5 equal to or more than the amount on

line 6?
Yes. Skip lines 7 through 9; go to line 10 and check the “No” box.
No. Enter the amount from line 5 7.
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6 8.
9. Multiply line 8 by 5% (.05) 9.
10. Are the amounts on lines 4 and 8 the same?
Yes. Skip lines 10 through 13; go to line 14.
No. Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 4 10.
11. Enter the amount from line 8 (if line 8 is blank, enter -0-) 11.
12. Subtract line 1. from line 10. 12.
13. Multiply line 12 by 15% (.15) 13.
14. Figure the tax on the amount line 5. Use the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet, whichever applies* 14.
15. Add lines 9,13, and 14 15.
16. Figure the tax on the amount line 1. Use the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet, whichever applies* 16.
17. Tax on all taxable income. Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 here and on Form 1040NR, line 41 17.
*Estates and trusts must use the Tax Rate Schedules.
Instructions for Form 1040NR -19-Page 20 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Stock by exercising an incentive
stock option and you did not dispose of

You also may be able to claim this 6. All of your foreign taxes were:
credit for the cost of any of the following a. Legally owed and not eligible for

the stock in the same year. items if the items meet certain a refund, and

Tax-exempt interest from private
activity bonds.
Intangible drilling, circulation,
research, experimental, or mining
costs.
Amortization of pollution-control or oil water heaters.
facilities or depletion.
Income or (loss) from tax-shelter

performance and quality standards. b. Paid to countries that are
Certain electric heat pump water recognized by the United States and do
heaters, electric heat pumps, not support terrorism.
geothermal heat pumps, central air
conditioners, and natural gas, propane, Note. If you need more information
about these requirements, see the
A qualified natural gas, propane, or Instructions for Form 1116.
oil furnace or hot water boiler.
If you meet all six requirements, see

farm activities or passive activities. An advanced main air circulating fan

Election To Claim the Foreign Tax

Income from long-term contracts not used in a natural gas, propane, or oil

Credit Without Filing Form 1116 in the

figured using the furnace.

Instructions for Form 1116 to figure the

percentage-of-completion method. For details, see Form 5695.

amount to enter on Form 1040NR, line

Alternative minimum tax adjustments Residential energy efficient

46. If you do not meet all six

from an estate, trust, electing large property credit.

You may be able to requirements, see Form 1116 to find

partnership, or cooperative. take this credit if you paid for any of the

out if you can take the credit.

Section 1202 exclusion. following during 2007.

Credit for child and dependent care
expenses.
Residential energy credits.
States.
Mortgage interest credits.
D.C. first-time homebuyer credit.

Line 47 — Child tax credit. This credit
Qualified solar electric property for
is for people who have a qualifying
use in your home located in the United
child as defined below. It is in addition
to the credit for child and dependent
Qualified solar water heating property
care expenses on Form 1040NR, line
for use in your home located in the

Any general business credit claimed 44.

United States.

on Form 3800.

Qualified fuel cell property installed Three steps to take the child tax

Empowerment zone and renewal on or in connection with your main credit.

community employment credit.
Qualified electric vehicle credit. For details, see Form 5695.

home located in the United States. 1. Make sure you have a qualifying
child for the child tax credit (defined

Alternative motor vehicle credit. below).

Special rule. If you are a member

Alternative fuel vehicle refueling
property credit.
Credit for prior year minimum tax.
Form 6251 should be filled in for
! a child who was under age 18 at
CAUTION the end of 2007 if the child’s
adjusted gross income from Form
1040NR, line 36, exceeds the child’s credits.

of a condominium management 2. Make sure for each qualifying
child you either checked the box on
association for a condominium you own
Form 1040NR, line 7c, column (4), or
or a tenant-stockholder in a cooperative
housing corporation, you are treated as completed Form 8901 (if the child is not
having paid your proportionate share of your dependent).
any costs of such association or 3. Answer the questions in the Who
corporation for purposes of these Must Use Pub. 972 chart on page 21 to
see if you can use the Child Tax Credit
Worksheet on page 21 or if you must

earned income by more than $6,300. Line 46 — Foreign tax credit. If you

use Pub. 972.

paid income tax to a foreign country,

you may be able to take this credit, but Qualifying child for child tax

Credits only if you:
1.
Line 44 — Credit for child and
sources (see
dependent care expenses. You may
the United States
be able to take this credit if you paid
2.
someone to care for your qualifying

credit. A qualifying child for purposes
Report income from foreign of the child tax credit is a child who:
Foreign Income Taxed by Was under age 17 at the end of
on page 6), and 2007.
Have paid or owe foreign tax on Is your son, daughter, stepchild,

that income. foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother,

child under age 13 or your dependent

stepsister, or a descendant of any of

or spouse who could not care for Generally, you must complete and

them (for example, your grandchild,

himself or herself. For details, see the attach Form 1116 to take this credit.

niece, or nephew).

Instructions for Form 2441.

Exception. You do not have to Is a U.S. citizen, a U.S. national, or a

Line 45 — Residential energy credits. complete Form 1116 to take this credit resident alien.

Complete Form 5695 to claim either of

the following credits. 1.

Nonbusiness energy property

credit. You may be able to take this

estate or trust.

credit for any of the following 2.

improvements to your main home

located in the United States in 2007 if

they are new and meet certain

dividend income).

requirements for energy efficiency. 3.

Any insulation material or system

primarily designed to reduce heat gain

or loss in your home.

Exterior windows (including

skylights). 4.

Exterior doors.

A metal roof with pigmented coatings

for at least 16 days.

primarily designed to reduce heat gain 5.

in your home.

not more than $300.

if all six of the following apply.

Did not provide over half of his or her

Form 1040NR is being filed for a own support for 2007.

nonresident alien individual and not an
All of your gross foreign source
income is from the passive category
(which includes most interest and
All the income and any foreign

Lived with you for more than half of
2007. Temporary absences, such as for
school, vacation, or medical care, count
as time lived in the home.
An adopted child is always treated as
your own child. An adopted child
includes a child lawfully placed with you

taxes paid on it were reported to you on for legal adoption.

qualified payee statements, such as
Form 1099-INT, Form 1099-DIV, or
similar substitute statements.
If you have dividend income from
shares of stock, you held those shares
The total of your foreign taxes is
-20-

Line 48 — Retirement savings
contributions credit (saver’s credit).
You may be able to take this credit if
you made (a) contributions to a
traditional or Roth IRA; (b) elective
deferrals to a 401(k) or 403(b) plan
(including designated Roth
contributions) or to a governmental 457,
Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 21 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Who Must Use Pub. 972 are partners, self-employed, or who

have rental property. See Form 3800 or

1. Is the amount on Form 1040NR, line 36, more than the amount shown below for Pub. 334.

your filing status?

Empowerment zone and renewal

Filing status 1, 2, or 6—$75,000 community employment credit. See

Filing status 3, 4, 5—$55,000 Form 8844.

Yes. Stop. You must use Pub. 972 to figure your credit.
No. Go to line 2.
2. Are you claiming any of the following credits?

Credit for alcohol used as fuel. See
Form 6478.
Renewable electricity, refined coal,

Residential energy credits, Form 5695. and Indian coal production credit for

Retirement savings contributions credit, Form 8880.
Mortgage interest credit, Form 8396.
District of Columbia first-time homebuyer credit, Form 8859.

electricity and refined coal produced at
facilities placed in service after October
22, 2004, and Indian coal produced at
facilities placed in service after August

Adoption credit, Form 8839. 8, 2005. See Form 8835, Section B.

Yes. Stop. You must use Pub. 972 to figure your child tax credit. You also will

Work opportunity credit. See Form

need the form(s) listed above for any credit(s) you are claiming.

5884.

No. Use the worksheet on this page to figure your child tax credit.

Credit for employer social security

and Medicare taxes paid on certain

SEP, or SIMPLE plan; (c) voluntary credit, see the form or publication tips. See Form 8846.

employee contributions to a qualified indicated.

New York Liberty Zone business

retirement plan (including the federal Credit for prior year minimum tax. If

employee credit. If you have a

Thrift Savings Plan); or (d) contributions you paid alternative minimum tax in a

carryforward of this credit, see Form

to a 501(c)(18)(D) plan. prior year, see Form 8801.

5884.

Qualified electric vehicle credit. This

However, you cannot take the credit

credit does not apply to vehicles placed Clean renewable energy bond credit.

if either of the following applies.

service after 2006. However, you See Form 8912.

The amount on Form 1040NR, line

may be able to take the credit if you Credit for Gulf tax credit bonds. See

36, is more than $26,000.

The person(s) who made the received 2006 Schedule K-1 showing Form 8912.

the credit from an entity with a fiscal

qualified contribution or elective deferral
(a) was born after January 1, 1990, (b)
is claimed as a dependent on someone
else’s 2007 tax return, or (c) was a
student (defined below).

Alternative motor vehicle credit. If
year ending in 2007 or have an
you placed an alternative motor vehicle
unallowed passive activity credit from a
(such as a qualified hybrid vehicle) in
prior year. See Form 8834.
service during 2007, see Form 8910.
General business credit. This credit
consists of a number of credits that Alternative fuel vehicle refueling

You were a student if during any part usually apply only to individuals who property credit. See Form 8911.

of 5 calendar months of 2007 you:

Were enrolled as a full-time student

Child Tax Credit Worksheet — Line 47 Keep for Your Records

at a school, or

Took a full-time, on-farm training

course given by a school or a state,
county, or local government agency. A
school includes a technical, trade, and
mechanical school. It does not include

To be a qualifying child for the child tax credit, the child must be under
! age 17 at the end of 2007 and meet the other requirements listed in the
CAUTION instructions for line 47 on page 20.
Do not use this worksheet if you answered “Yes” to question 1 or 2 in

an on-the-job training course, Who Must Use Pub. 972 above. Instead, use Pub. 972.

correspondence school, or school

offering courses only through the 1. Number of qualifying children: X $1,000.

Internet. Enter the result 1.

For more details, see Form 8880. 2. Enter the amount from Form 1040NR, line 43 2.

Line 49. Include the following credits 3. Enter the total of the amounts from Form 1040NR, lines

on line 49 and check the appropriate 44 and 46 3.

box(es). To find out if you can take the 4. Are the amounts on lines 2 and 3 the same?

credit, see the form indicated. Yes. STOP. You cannot take this credit because there is no tax to

Mortgage interest credit. If a state or reduce. However, you may be able to take the additional child tax

local government gave you a mortgage credit. See the TIP below.

credit certificate, see Form 8396. No. Subtract line 3 from line 2 4.

District of Columbia first-time 5. Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 4?

homebuyer credit. See Form 8859. Yes. Enter the amount from line 4. Also, you may be able to take

Adoption credit. If you paid expenses the additional child tax credit. See the TIP below.

to adopt a child or you adopted a child No. Enter the amount from line 1 5.

with special needs and the adoption This is your child tax credit. Enter this amount on Form 1040NR,

became final in 2007, see the line 47.

Instructions for Form 8839.

TIP: You may be able to take the additional child tax credit on Form 1040NR,

Line 50 — Other credits. Include the

line 62, if you answered “Yes” on line 4 or line 5 above.

following credits on line 50 and check

the appropriate box(es). If box c is First, complete your Form 1040NR through line 61.

checked, also enter the applicable form Then, use Form 8812 to figure any additional child tax credit.

number. To find out if you can take the

Instructions for Form 1040NR -21-Page 22 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Other Taxes
Line 54 — Unreported social security
and Medicare tax from Forms 4137
and 8919. Enter the total of any taxes
from Form 4137 and Form 8919. Check
the appropriate box(es).
Form 4137. If you received tips of
$20 or more in any month and you did
not report the full amount to your
employer, you must pay the social
security and Medicare or railroad
retirement (RRTA) tax on the
unreported tips. You must also pay this
tax if your Form(s) W-2 shows allocated
tips that you are including in your
income on Form 1040NR, line 8.
To figure the social security and
Medicare tax, use Form 4137. If you
owe RRTA tax, contact your employer.
Your employer will figure and collect the
RRTA tax.
You may be charged a penalty
! equal to 50% of the social

Form 1040NR, line 16b or line 17b, or
dotted line next to line 55 to indicate
that you do not have to file Form 5329.
But if distribution code 1 is incorrectly
shown in Form 1099-R, box 7, you
received a Form 1042-S for the
distribution, or you qualify for an
exception for qualified higher education
expenses or qualified first-time
Form 5329.
subject to a 4% tax on U.S. source
gross transportation income that is not
effectively connected with a U.S. trade
or business. However, the term U.S.
source gross transportation income
does not include any such income that
is taxable in a possession of the United
States under the provisions of the

order, etc.
during 2007 at the request of any
household employee.
$1,000 or more in any calendar quarter
of 2006 or 2007 to household
employees.
For purposes of item 1, do not
employee who was under age
18 at any time in 2007 and was a
student.
who does household work is a
household employee if you can control
what will be done and how it will be
done. Household work includes work
done in or around your home by
babysitters, nannies, health aides,
maids, yard workers, and similar

CAUTION security and Medicare tax due For purposes of this tax,

on tips you received but did not report
to your employer.
Form 8919. If you are an employee

transportation income will be treated as
not effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the

who received wages from an employer United States unless:

who did not withhold social security and
Medicare tax from your wages, use
Form 8919 to figure your share of the
unreported tax. Include on line 54 the
amount from line 13 of Form 8919.
Include the amount from line 6 of Form

1. You had a fixed place of business
in the United States involved in the
earning of transportation income, and
2. At least 90% of your U.S. source
gross transportation income was
attributable to regularly scheduled

8919 on Form 1040NR, line 8. transportation. Or, in the case of

Line 55 — Additional tax on IRAs,
other qualified retirement plans, etc.
If any of the following apply, see Form
5329 and its instructions to find out if
you owe this tax and if you must file
Form 5329.
1. You received an early distribution
from (a) an IRA or other qualified
retirement plan, (b) an annuity,
or (c) a modified endowment contract
entered into after June 20, 1988, and
the total distribution was not rolled over
in a qualified rollover contribution.
2. Excess contributions were made
to your IRAs, Coverdell education
savings accounts (ESAs), Archer
MSAs, or health savings accounts.
3. You received taxable distributions
from Coverdell ESAs or qualified tuition
programs.
4. You were born before July 1,
1936, and did not take the minimum
required distribution from your IRA or
other qualified retirement plan.
to you and distribution code 1 is
correctly shown in your Form 1099-R,
box 7, you do not have to file Form
5329. Instead, multiply the taxable
amount of the distribution by 10% (.10)
and enter the result on line 55. The
taxable amount of the distribution is the

income from the leasing of a vessel or
aircraft, it was attributable to a fixed
place of business in the United States.
See sections 887 and 863 for rules,
definitions, and exceptions.
If you owe this tax, you must attach
a statement to your return that includes
the information described in Pub. 519.
see Schedule H (Form 1040) and its
instructions to find out if you owe these
taxes.
1. You paid any one household
$1,500 more 2007. Cash wages

Recapture of the following credits.
Investment credit (see Form 4255).
Form 8611). Identify as “LIHCR.”
Qualified electric vehicle credit (see
Form 8834). Identify as “QEVCR.”
Indian employment credit (see Form
8845). Identify as “IECR.”
New markets credit (see Form 8874).
Identify as “NMCR.”
Credit for employer-provided
childcare facilities and services (see
Form 8882). Identify as “ECCFR.”
Alternative motor vehicle credit (see
Form 8910). Identify as “AMVCR.”
Alternative fuel vehicle refueling
property credit (see Form 8911).
Identify as “ARPCR.”
you claimed the mortgage interest
credit, see Form 8828. Identify as
“FMSR.”
“Sec. 72(m)(5).”

part of the distribution you reported on include wages paid by check, money
Form 4972. Also, enter the 2. You withheld federal income tax
homebuyer distributions, you must file TIP count amounts paid to an
Line 56 — Transportation tax.
Nonresident alien individuals are
Internal Revenue Code as applied to domestic workers.
that possession. Line 58 — Total tax. Include in the
You may be exempt from this tax Low-income housing credit (see
because of a treaty or an exchange of
notes between the United States and
the country of which you are a resident.
If the country of which you are a
resident does not impose tax on the
shipping or aircraft income of U.S.
persons, you may also be exempt from
this tax. If you are exempt from the tax
for one of these reasons, you must
attach a statement to Form 1040NR
identifying your country of residence
and the treaty, note, or law and
provisions under which you claim
exemption from the tax.
Exception. If only item (1) applies Line 57 — Household employment
employee (defined below) cash wages tax. (See Pub. 560.) Identify as

3. You paid total cash wages of
Household employee. Any person
total on line 58 any of the following
taxes. To find out if you owe the tax,
see the form or publication indicated.
On the dotted line next to line 58, enter
the amount of the tax and identify it as
indicated.
Additional taxes on the following.
Health savings account distributions
(see Form 8889, Part II). Identify as
“HSA.”
Archer MSA distributions (see Form
8853). Identify as “MSA.”
Medicare Advantage MSA
distributions (see Form 8853). Identify
as “Med MSA.”
Identify as “ICR.”
Recapture of federal mortgage
subsidy. If you sold your home in
2007 and it was financed (in whole or in
part) from the proceeds of any
taxes. If any of the following apply, tax-exempt qualified mortgage bond or
Section 72(m)(5) excess benefits
-22- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 23 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Uncollected social security and
Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or
group-term life insurance. This tax
should be shown in your Form W-2,
box 12, with codes A and B or M and N.
Identify as “UT.”
Golden parachute payments. If
you received an excess parachute
payment (EPP), you must pay a 20%
tax on it. This tax should be shown in
your Form W-2, box 12, with code K. If
you received a Form 1099-MISC, the
tax is 20% of the EPP shown in box 13.

If you received a 2007 Form 1099
showing federal income tax withheld on
dividends, taxable or tax-exempt
interest income, or other income you
received, include the amount withheld
in the total on line 59. This should be
shown in Form 1099, box 4.

Line 63 — Amount paid with
Form 4868 (request for extension).
automatic extension of time to file Form
1040NR, enter any amount you paid
with that form or by electronic funds
credit card, do not include on line 63
the box(es) on line 64 to report any
credit from Form 2439, 4136, 8885.
Line 65 — Credit for amount paid with

Identify as “EPP.” page 2, line 66.

Tax on accumulation distribution
of trusts. Enter the amount from Form
4970 and identify as “ADT.”
Excise tax on insider stock
compensation from an expatriated
corporation. You may owe a 15%
excise tax on the value of nonstatutory
stock options and certain other
stock-based compensation held by you
or a member of your family from an
expatriated corporation or its expanded
affiliated group in which you were an
officer, director, or more-than-10%
owner. See section 4985. Identify as
“ISC.”
Additional tax on income you
received from a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan that
fails to meet certain requirements.
This income should be shown in Form
W-2, box 12, with code Z, or in Form
1099-MISC, box 15b. The tax is 20% of
the amount required to be included in
income plus an interest amount
determined under section
409A(a)(1)(B)(ii). See section
409A(a)(1)(B) for details. Identify as
“NQDC.”
Interest on the tax due on
installment income from the sale of
certain residential lots and
timeshares. Identify as “453(l)(3).”
Interest on the deferred tax on
gain from certain installment sales
with a sales price over $150,000.
Identify as “453A(c).”
Payments
Line 59 — Federal income tax
withheld. Enter all federal income tax
withheld on your effectively connected
income from Forms W-2 and 1099-R.
The amount withheld should be shown
in Form W-2, box 2, and in Form
1099-R, box 4. If line 59 includes
amounts withheld as shown on Form
1099-R, attach the Form 1099-R to the
front of your return. Also, include in the
total for line 59 any tax withheld from
Form 1042-S, box 7, that was withheld
on:
Scholarship or fellowship grants, or
Pensions that you included on line
17a or 17b.
Instructions for Form 1040NR

Line 60 — 2007 estimated tax
payments. Enter any estimated
etc., and you made estimated tax
payments using your former name,
attach a statement to the front of Form
1040NR. On the statement, list all of
the payments you made in 2007 and
show the name(s) and identifying
number(s) under which you made them.
Line 61 — Excess social security and
more than one employer for 2007 and
total wages of more than $97,500, too
much social security or tier 1 railroad
retirement (RRTA) tax may have been
withheld. You can take a credit on this
line for the amount withheld in excess
of $6,045. But if any one employer
withheld more than $6,045, you cannot
employer should adjust the tax for you.
If the employer does not adjust the
overcollection, you can file a claim for
refund using Form 843.
You cannot claim a refund for
excess tier 2 RRTA tax on Form
1040NR. Instead, use Form 843.
have at least one qualifying child as
defined in the instructions for line 47 on
page 20. The additional child tax credit
may give you a refund even if you do
not owe any tax.
-23-

paid with Form 1040-C for 2007.
on page 4, line 86. Be sure to attach a
copy of all Form(s) 1042-S,
SSA-1042S, RRB-1042S, or similar
form(s).
any tax withheld by a partnership
shown on Form(s) 8805. Enter on
line 67b any tax withheld by a
partnership shown on Form(s) 1042-S.
Be sure to attach a copy of all Form(s)
8805 and 1042-S.
withheld on dispositions of U.S. real
any tax withheld on dispositions of U.S.
real property interests from Form(s)
8288-A. Enter on line 68b any tax
withheld on dispositions of U.S. real
property interests from Form(s) 1042-S.
Be sure to attach a copy of all Form(s)
8288-A and 1042-S.
Line 69 — Refundable credit for prior
amount, if any, from Form 8801, line
27.
Line 71 — Amount overpaid. If
refund only on written request.
If the amount you overpaid is
decrease the amount of income
tax withheld from your pay by filing a
new Form W-4. See Income Tax
Refund offset. If you owe past-due
federal tax, state income tax, child
support, spousal support, or certain
federal nontax debts, such as student
loans, all or part of the overpayment on
line 71 may be used (offset) to pay the

Do not include on line 59 the convenience fee you were charged.
CAUTION effectively connected with a
U.S. trade or business. Those amounts
should be reported in column (a) on
page 4. They are then carried over to
federal income tax payments you made
using Form 1040-ES (NR) for 2007.
Include any overpayment from your
2006 return that you applied to your
2007 estimated tax.
claim the excess on your return. The
For more details, see Pub. 505. Refund
Line 62 — Additional child tax credit.
This credit is for certain people who
To take the credit:
1. Be sure you figured the amount, Withholding and Estimated Tax
if any, of your child tax credit. See the Payments for Individuals for 2008 on
instructions for line 47 on page 20. page 30.
2. Read the TIP at the end of your
Child Tax Credit Worksheet on page
21. Use Form 8812 to see if you can
take the additional child tax credit, but
only if you meet the conditions given in
that TIP.

If you filed Form 4868 to get an
withdrawal or credit card. If you paid by
! amounts withheld on income not Line 64 — Other payments. Check
Form 1040-C. Enter any amount you
Line 66 — U.S. tax withheld at source.
Enter on line 66 the amount you show
Lines 67a and 67b— U.S. tax
Name change. If you changed your withheld at source by partnerships
name because of marriage, divorce, under section 1446. Enter on line 67a
Lines 68a and 68b— U.S. tax
tier 1 RRTA tax withheld. If you had property interests. Enter on line 68a
year minimum tax. If you have an
unused minimum tax credit
carryforward from 2004, you may be
able to claim at least part of it as a
refundable credit. Enter on line 69 the
line 71 is under $1, we will send a
TIP large, you may be able toPage 24 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

past-due amount. Offsets for federal Note.
taxes are made by the IRS. All other
offsets are made by the Treasury
Department’s Financial Management
Service (FMS). For federal tax offsets, 72d.
you will receive a notice from the IRS.
For all other offsets, you will receive a
notice from FMS. To find out if you may !
have an offset or if you have any CAUTION
questions about it, contact the
agency(ies) to which you owe the debt. get the

If you do not want your refund must check the correct box to ensure
directly deposited to your account, do your deposit is accepted.
not check the box on line 72a. Draw a
line through the boxes on lines 72b and Line 72d. The account number
can be up to 17 characters (both
numbers and letters). Include hyphens
The IRS is not responsible for a but omit spaces and special symbols.
lost refund if you enter the Enter the number from left to right and
wrong account information. leave any unused boxes blank. On the
Check with your financial institution to sample check below, the account
correct routing and account number is 20202086. Do not include

Lines 72a through 72d — Direct numbers and to make sure your direct the check number.

deposit of refund. deposit will be accepted. Do not use

the routing number on a deposit slip if it Individual Retirement Arrangement

DIRECT DEPOSIT

your checks.

Simple. Safe. Secure.

Fast Refunds! Choose direct deposit–a

fast, simple, safe, secure way to have your

refund deposited automatically to your

checking or savings account, including an

individual retirement arrangement (IRA).

See the information on IRAs on this page.

Line 72b.

Why Use Direct Deposit?

You get your refund faster by direct

deposit than you do by check.

Payment is more secure— there is

no check that can get lost or stolen.

It is more convenient. You do not

have to make a trip to the bank to

deposit your check.

It saves tax dollars. It costs the

government less to refund by direct

deposit.

If you want us to directly deposit the

amount shown on line 72a to your

72b if:

checking or savings account, including

an IRA, at a U.S. bank or other financial

institution (such as a mutual fund,

or

brokerage firm, or credit union) in the

United States:

Check the box on line 72a and attach

Form 8888 if you want to split the direct

checking account.

deposit of your refund among two or

three accounts, or
Complete lines 72b through 72d if

Line 72c.

you want your refund deposited to only

one account.

Otherwise, we will send you a check.

Sample Check—Lines 72b Through 72d

RUFUS MAPLE

MARY MAPLE

123 Main Street

Anyplace, LA 70000

PAY TO THE ORDER OF SA M PLE

Routing Account

ANYPLACE BANK Number Number

Anyplace, LA 70000

(line 72b) (line 72d)

For

H17074

is different from the routing number on
If the direct deposit to your
account(s) is different from the amount
you expected, you will receive an
explanation in the mail about 2 weeks
after your refund is deposited.
The routing number must
be nine digits. The first two digits must
be 01 through 12 or 21 through 32.
Otherwise, the direct deposit will be
rejected and a check sent instead. On
the sample check below, the routing
number is 250250025. Rufus and Mary
Maple would use that routing number
unless their financial institution
instructed them to use a different
routing number for direct deposits.
Ask your financial institution for the
correct routing number to enter on line
Your deposit is to a savings account
that does not allow you to write checks,
Your checks state they are payable
through a financial institution different
from the one at which you have your
Check the appropriate
box for the type of account. Do not
check more than one box. If the deposit
is to an IRA, ask your financial
institution whether you should check
the “Checking” or “Savings” box. You

(IRA). You can have your refund
directly deposited to a traditional IRA,
Roth IRA, or SEP-IRA, but not a
SIMPLE IRA. You must establish the
IRA at a bank or other financial
institution before you request direct
deposit. Make sure your direct deposit
will be accepted. You also must notify
the trustee of your account of the year
to which the deposit is to be applied
unless the trustee will not accept a
deposit for 2007. If you do not, the
trustee can assume the deposit is for
the year during which you are filing the
return. For example, if you file your
2007 return during 2008 and do not
notify the trustee in advance, the
trustee can assume the deposit to your
IRA is for 2008. If you designate your
deposit to be for 2007, you must verify
that the deposit actually was made to
the account by the due date of the
return (without regard to extensions). If
the deposit is not made to your account
by the due date of the return (without
regard to extensions), the deposit is not
an IRA contribution for 2007. You must
file an amended 2007 return and
reduce any IRA deduction and any
retirement savings contributions credit
you claimed.
You may be able to contribute
! up to $4,000 ($5,000 if age 50
CAUTION or older at the end of 2007) to a
traditional IRA or Roth IRA for 2007.
The limit for 2008 is $5,000 ($6,000 if
age 50 or older at the end of 2008). A
higher limit may apply for 2007 and
2008 if you were a participant in a

1234 401(k) plan and your employer was in

bankruptcy in an earlier year. You may

15-0000/0000

owe a penalty if your contributions

exceed these limits.

For more information on IRAs,

TIP see Pub. 590.

DOLLARS

Do not include

Line 73 — Applied to 2008 estimated

the check number

tax. Enter on line 73 the amount, if

any, of the overpayment on line 71 you

want applied to your 2008 estimated

tax. This election cannot be changed

Note: The routing and account numbers may appear in different places on your check. later.

Instructions for Form 1040NR

H17074Page 25 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

To pay by electronic federal tax the amount on line 57 only if line 59 is

Amount YouOwe payment system (EFTPS).
can pay using EFTPS, a free tax
Line 74 — Amount you owe. payment system that allows you to
make payments online or by phone. For
To save interest and penalties,
more information or details on enrolling,
TIP pay your taxes in full by the due

You also more than zero or you would owe the
penalty even if you did not include
those taxes. But if you entered an
amount on Schedule H (Form 1040),
line 7, include the total of that amount

visit www.eftps.gov or, if you are in the plus the amount on Form 1040NR, line

date. You do not have to pay if

United States, call Customer Service at 57.

line 74 is under $1.

1-800-316-6541. TTY/TDD help is

Include any estimated tax penalty available by calling 1-800-733-4829.
from line 75 in the amount you enter on
You may need to (a) increase
line 74.
TIP the amount of income tax
You can pay by check, money order, withheld from your pay by filing
a new Form W-4, (b) increase the tax
credit card, or the electronic federal tax

Exception. You will not owe the
penalty if your 2006 tax return was for a
tax year of 12 full months and either of
the following applies.
1. You had no tax shown on your

withholding from other income by filing 2006 return and you were a U.S. citizen

payment system. Do not include any

Form W-4P or W-4V, or (c) make or resident for all of 2006, or

estimated tax payment for 2008 in your

estimated tax payments for 2008. See 2. The total of lines 59, 60, 61, and

check, money order, or amount you

charge. Instead, make the estimated Income Tax Withholding and Estimated
tax payment separately. Tax Payments for Individuals for 2008
on page 30.
To pay by check or money order. What if you cannot pay?
Make your check or money order cannot pay the full amount shown on

65 through 68b on your 2007 return is
at least as much as the tax shown on
your 2006 return. Your estimated tax
If you payments for 2007 must have been
made on time and for the required

payable to the “United States Treasury” line 74 when you file, you can ask to amount.

for the full amount due. Do not send make monthly installment payments for

cash. Do not attach the payment to the full or a partial amount. You may

your return. Write “2007 Form 1040NR”
have up to 60 months to pay. However,
and your name, address, daytime
even if your request to pay in
phone number, and SSN or ITIN on
installments is granted, you will be
your payment.
charged interest and may be charged a
To help process your payment, enter late payment penalty on the tax not
the amount on the right side of the paid by the date due. You also must
check like this: $ XXX.XX. Do not use pay a fee. To limit the interest and
dashes or lines (for example, do not penalty charges, pay as much of the
XX tax as possible when you file. But

If your 2006 adjusted gross
! income was over $150,000
CAUTION (over $75,000 if you checked
filing status box 3, 4, or 5 for 2007),
item (2) applies only if the total of lines
59, 60, 61, and 65 through 68b on your
2007 tax return is at least 110% of the
tax shown on your 2006 return. This
rule does not apply to farmers and

enter “XXX–” or “XXX ₁₀₀”). fishermen.

before requesting an installment

To pay by credit card. You can use agreement, you should consider other

Figuring the penalty. If the

your American Express Card, less costly alternatives, such as a bank

Exception above does not apply and

Discover Card, Master Card card, or loan or credit card payment.

you choose to figure the penalty

Visa card. To pay by credit card, call

To ask for an installment agreement, yourself, see Form 2210 (or Form

toll-free or visit the website of either

you can apply online or use Form 9465. 2210-F for farmers and fishermen) to

service provider listed below and follow

To apply online, go to www.irs.gov, use find out if you owe the penalty. If you

the instructions. You will be asked to

the pull-down menu under “I need to...” do, you can use the form to figure the

provide your social security number

and select “Set Up a Payment Plan.” If amount.

(SSN). If you do not have and are not

you use Form 9465, you should receive

eligible to get an SSN, use your

a response to your request for Enter the penalty on line 75. Add the

IRS-issued individual taxpayer

installments within 30 days. But if you penalty to any tax due and enter the

identification number (ITIN) instead.

file your return after March 31, it may total on line 74. If you are due a refund,

A convenience fee will be charged take us longer to reply.
by the service provider based on the Line 75 — Estimated tax penalty.
amount you are paying. Fees may vary You may owe this penalty if:
between the providers. You will be told Line 74 is at least $1,000 and it is
what the fee is during the transaction more than 10% of the tax shown on

subtract the penalty from the
overpayment you show on line 71. Do
not file Form 2210 with your return
unless Form 2210 indicates that you
must do so. Instead, keep it for your

and you will have the option to either your return, or records.

continue or cancel the transaction. You You did not pay enough estimated

also can find out what the fee will be by
calling the provider’s toll-free
automated customer service number or
visiting the provider’s website shown
below.
Link2Gov Corporation
1-888-PAY-1040 SM (1-888-729-1040)
1-888-658-5465 (Customer Service)
www.PAY1040.com
Official Payments Corporation
1-800-2PAY-TAX SM (1-800-272-9829)
1-877-754-4413 (Customer Service)
www.officialpayments.com
Instructions for Form 1040NR

tax by any of the due dates. This is true
even if you are due a refund.
For most people, the “tax shown on
your return” is the amount on line 58
minus the total of any amounts shown
on lines 62 and 69 and Forms 8828,
4137, 4136, 5329 (Parts III through VIII
only), 8885, and 8919. Also, subtract
from line 58 any tax on an excess
parachute payment, any excise tax on
insider stock compensation of an
expatriated corporation, and any
uncollected social security and
Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or
group-term life insurance. When
figuring the amount on line 58, include
-25-

Because Form 2210 is
TIP complicated, you can leave line
75 blank and the IRS will figure
the penalty and send you a bill. We will
not charge you interest on the penalty if
you pay by the date specified on the
bill. If your income varied during the
year, the annualized income installment
method may reduce the amount of your
penalty. But you must file Form 2210
because the IRS cannot figure your
penalty under this method. See the
Instructions for Form 2210 for other
situations in which you may be able to
lower your penalty by filing Form 2210.Page 26 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

tolls to the amount you claim under

Third Party Designee
If you want to allow a friend, family Taxes
member, or any other person you
choose to discuss your 2007 tax return Lines 1 Through 3

State and Local Income either method. But do not deduct any
amounts that were repaid to you.
Gifts from which you benefit. If you
made a gift and received a benefit in

with the IRS, check the “Yes” box in the You can deduct state and local income

return, such as food, entertainment, or

“Third Party Designee” area of your taxes you paid or that were withheld

merchandise, you generally can deduct

return. Also, enter the designee’s from your salary during 2007 on income

only the amount that is more than the

name, U.S. phone number, and any connected with a U.S. trade or

value of the benefit. But this rule does

five numbers the designee chooses as business. If, during 2007, you received

not apply to certain membership

his or her personal identification any refunds of, or credits for, income

benefits provided in return for an

number (PIN). But if you want to allow tax paid in earlier years, do not subtract

annual payment of $75 or less. For

the paid preparer who signed your them from the amount you deduct here.

details, see Pub. 526.

return to discuss it with the IRS, just Instead, see the instructions for

enter “Preparer” in the space for the
designee’s name. You do not have to
provide the other information
requested.
Lines 4 Through 7
If you check the “Yes” box, you are
authorizing the IRS to call the designee
to answer any questions that may arise
during the processing of your return.
You also are authorizing the designee
to:
Give the IRS any information that is
missing from your return,
Call the IRS for information about the
processing of your return or the status status, you can:
of your refund or payment(s),
Receive copies of notices or
transcripts related to your return, upon
request, and
status.
Respond to certain IRS notices about
math errors, offsets, and return
preparation.
Pub. 78 at
and Non-Profits.
You are not authorizing the designee

Form 1040NR, line 11, on page 11. Example. You paid $70 to a
charitable organization to attend a
Gifts to U.S. Charities fund-raising dinner and the value of the
dinner was $40. You can deduct only
$30.
You can deduct contributions or gifts
Gifts of $250 or more. You can
you gave to U.S. organizations that are
deduct a gift of $250 or more only if you
religious, charitable, educational,
have a statement from the charitable
scientific, or literary in purpose. You
organization showing the information in
also can deduct what you gave to
(1) and (2) below.
organizations that work to prevent
cruelty to children or animals. 1. The amount of any money
contributed and a description (but not
To verify an organization’s charitable value) of any property donated.
2. Whether the organization did or
Check with the organization to which did not give you any goods or services
you made the donation. The
in return for your contribution. If you did
organization should be able to provide
receive any goods or services, a
you with verification of its charitable
description and estimate of the value
must be included. If you received only
See Pub. 78 for a list of most
intangible religious benefits (such as
qualified organizations. You can access
admission to a religious ceremony), the
www.irs.gov under Charities
organization must state this, but it does
not have to describe or value the
If in the United States, call our Tax

to receive any refund check, bind you benefit.

Exempt/Government Entities Customer

to anything (including any additional tax

Account Services at 1-877-829-5500.

liability), or otherwise represent you
before the IRS. If you want to expand
the designee’s authorization, see Pub.
947.

In figuring whether a gift is $250 or
Examples of U.S. qualified charitable more, do not combine separate
organizations include the following. donations. For example, if you gave
Churches, mosques, synagogues, your church $25 each week for a total

temples, etc. of $1,300, treat each $25 payment as a

The authorization will end Boy Scouts, Boys and Girls Clubs of

separate gift. If you made donations

automatically no later than the due date America, CARE, Girl Scouts, Goodwill

through payroll deductions, treat each

(without regard to extensions) for filing Industries, Red Cross, Salvation Army,

deduction from each paycheck as a

your 2008 tax return (see When To File United Way, etc.

separate gift. See Pub. 526 if you made

on page 4). If you wish to revoke the Fraternal orders, if the gifts will be

a separate gift of $250 or more through

authorization before it ends, see Pub. used for the purposes listed above.

payroll deduction.

947. Veterans’ and certain cultural groups.

Nonprofit schools, hospitals, and You must get the statement by

organizations whose purpose is to find TIP the date you file your return or

a cure for, or help people who have, the due date (including

Signature
See Reminders beginning on page 30
after you complete pages 3, 4, and 5 of
the form.
Instructions for public purposes.
Schedule A, Itemized
Deductions
Do not include on Schedule A
! items deducted elsewhere such
CAUTION as on Form 1040NR or
Schedule C, C-EZ, E, or F (Form 1040).

arthritis, asthma, birth defects, cancer,
cerebral palsy, cystic fibrosis, diabetes,
heart disease, hemophilia, mental

extensions) for filing your return,
whichever is earlier. Do not attach the
statement to your return. Instead, keep

illness or retardation, multiple sclerosis, it for your records.

muscular dystrophy, tuberculosis, etc.

Federal, state, and local
governments if the gifts are solely for
Contributions you can deduct.
Contributions can be in cash, property,
or out-of-pocket expenses you paid to
do volunteer work for the kinds of
organizations described earlier. If you
drove to and from the volunteer work,
you can take the actual cost of gas and
oil or 14 cents a mile. Add parking and
-26-

Limit on the amount you can deduct.
See Pub. 526 to figure the amount of
your deduction if any of the following
applies.
1. Your cash contributions or
contributions of ordinary income
property are more than 30% of the
amount on Form 1040NR, line 36.
2. Your gifts of capital gain property
are more than 20% of the amount on
Form 1040NR, line 36.
Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 27 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

3. You gave gifts of property that details on determining the value of

Casualty and Theft Losses

increased in value or gave gifts of the donated property, see Pub. 561.

use of property. If the amount of your deduction is Line 8

more than $500, you must complete Complete and attach Form 4684 to

Contributions you cannot deduct.

and attach Form 8283. For this figure the amount of your loss to enter

Travel expenses (including meals

purpose, the “amount of your on line 8.

and lodging) while away from home,

deduction” means your deduction

unless there was no significant element
of personal pleasure, recreation, or
could result in a carryover of
vacation in the travel.
Political contributions.
$500 for a contribution of a motor
Dues, fees, or bills paid to country
clubs, lodges, fraternal orders, or
similar groups.
organization to your return. The
Cost of raffle, bingo, or lottery tickets.

You may be able to deduct part or all
before applying any income limits that
of each loss caused by theft,
vandalism, fire, storm, or similar
contributions. If you deduct more than
causes, and car, boat, and other
accidents. You also may be able to
vehicle, boat, or airplane, you also must
deduct money you had in a financial
attach a statement from the charitable
institution but lost because of the
insolvency or bankruptcy of the
organization may use Form 1098-C to

Cost of tuition. But you may be able institution.

provide the required information. If your

to deduct this expense on line 9. See

total deduction is over $5,000, you also You can deduct nonbusiness

page 28.

may have to get appraisals of the casualty or theft losses only to the

Value of your time or services.

values of the donated property. This extent that:

Value of blood given to a blood bank.

amount is $500 for certain contributions

The transfer of a future interest in
tangible personal property (generally,
below). See Form 8283 and its
until the entire interest has been
instructions for details.
transferred).
Gifts to individuals and groups that Contributions of clothing and
are run for personal profit. household items.
Gifts to foreign organizations. But
you may be able to deduct gifts to

1. The amount of each separate
of clothing and household items (see
casualty or theft loss is more than
$100, and
2. The total amount of all losses
during the year (reduced by the $100
A deduction for limit discussed in (1) above) is more
these contributions will be allowed only than 10% of the amount shown on
if the items are in good used condition Form 1040NR, line 36.

certain U.S. organizations that transfer or better. However, this rule does not

funds to foreign charities and certain
Canadian, Israeli, and Mexican
charities. See Pub. 526 for details. $500 is claimed and for which you
Gifts to organizations engaged in
certain political activities that are of 8283 with your tax return.
direct financial interest to your trade or Recordkeeping.
business. See section 170(f)(9).
Gifts to groups whose purpose is to
lobby for changes in the laws. gave the property to, or a reliable

apply to a contribution of any single Special rules apply if you had both
item for which a deduction of more than gains and losses from nonbusiness
casualties or thefts. See Form 4684
include a qualified appraisal and Form and its instructions for details.
Use Schedule A, line 11, to deduct
If you gave property, the costs of proving that you had a
you should keep a receipt or written property loss. Examples of these costs
statement from the organization you are appraisal fees and photographs
used to establish the amount of your

Gifts to civic leagues, social and written record, that shows the loss.

sports clubs, labor unions, and organization’s name and address, the

chambers of commerce. date and location of the gift, and a
Value of benefits received in

For information on federal disaster
description of the property. For each area losses, see Pub. 547.

connection with a contribution to a gift of property, you also should keep

charitable organization. See Pub. 526
for exceptions.
Line 4
Enter the total gifts you made in cash or signed copy of the appraisal.
by check (including out-of-pocket The cost or other basis of the
expenses).

reliable written records that include: Job Expenses and Certain
How you figured the property’s value Miscellaneous Deductions
at the time you gave it. If the value was
determined by an appraisal, keep a Note. Miscellaneous deductions are
allowed only if and to the extent they
are directly related to your effectively
property if you must reduce it by any connected income. You can deduct

ordinary income or capital gain that only the part of these expenses that

Recordkeeping. For any contribution
made in cash, regardless of the
been sold at its fair market value.
amount, you must maintain as a record
of the contribution a bank record (such
as a canceled check) or a written
gifts of capital gain property.
record from the charity. The written
record must include the name of the
charity, date, and amount of the
contribution. Do not attach the record to !
your tax return. Instead, keep it with CAUTION
your other tax records.

exceeds 2% of the amount on Form
would have resulted if the property had
1040NR, line 36.
How you figured your deduction if Pub. 529 discusses the types of
you chose to reduce your deduction for expenses you can and cannot deduct.
Any conditions attached to the gift. Examples of Expenses You
If your total deduction for gifts of Cannot Deduct
property is over $500, you gave Political contributions.
less than your entire interest in Legal expenses for personal matters
the property, or you made a “qualified that do not produce taxable income.

conservation contribution,” your records Lost or misplaced cash or property.

Line 5
Enter your contributions of property. If See Pub. 526 for details.
you gave used items, such as clothing
or furniture, deduct their fair market Line 6
value at the time you gave them. Fair
market value is what a willing buyer
would pay a willing seller when neither year because they exceeded your
has to buy or sell and both are aware of adjusted gross income limit. See
the conditions of the sale. For more Pub. 526 for details.
Instructions for Form 1040NR

should contain additional information. Expenses for meals during regular or
extra work hours.
The cost of entertaining friends.
Commuting expenses. See Pub. 529
Enter any carryover of contributions for the definition of commuting.
that you could not deduct in an earlier Travel expenses for employment
away from home if that period of
employment exceeds 1 year.
Travel as a form of education.
-27-Page 28 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Expenses of attending a seminar,

convention, or similar meeting unless it
is related to your employment.
Club dues. See Pub. 529 for
exceptions.
Expenses of adopting a child. But
you may be able to take a credit for
adoption expenses. See Form 8839 for
details.
Fines and penalties.
Expenses of producing tax-exempt
income.
Line 9

of your job expenses that you otherwise
would report on line 9.
If you used your own vehicle
apply, you may be able to file
Form 2106-EZ instead.
If you do not have to file Form 2106

other costs to look for a new job in your
present occupation, even if you do not
get a new job.
Certain business use of part of your
apply, see Pub. 587.
Certain educational expenses. For
details, see Pub. 970.

Enter the total ordinary and necessary one total on line 9.

job expenses you paid for which you
were not reimbursed. (Amounts your

Do not include on line 9 any

Line 11
Enter the total amount you paid to

employer included in box 1 of your ! educator expenses you

Form W-2 are not considered

reimbursements.)

24.

earning income. But do not include any

An ordinary expense is one that is Examples of other expenses to

common and accepted in your field of include on line 9 are:

trade, business, or profession. A

Safety equipment, small tools, and

necessary expense is one that is supplies needed for your job.

helpful and appropriate for your
business. An expense does not have to
be required to be considered
necessary.
But you must fill in and attach
Form 2106 if either (1) or (2) below
applies.
transportation, meal, or entertainment
expenses for your job.
Itemized Deductions

Uniforms required by your employer
that are not suitable for ordinary wear.
Protective clothing required in your
work, such as hard hats, safety shoes,
Physical examinations required by
your employer.
Dues to professional organizations
Subscriptions to professional
journals.

Examples of expenses to include on
line 11 are:
Clerical help and office rent.
Custodial (for example, trust account)
fees.
expenses of a regulated investment
company.

Worksheet — Line 17 Keep for Your Records

Add the amounts on Schedule A, lines 3, 7, 8, 15, and 16 1.

Enter the total of the amount on Schedule A, line 8, plus
any casualty or theft losses included on line 16
Caution: Be sure your casualty or theft losses are clearly
identified on the dotted lines next to line 16.
Is the amount on line 2 less than the amount on line 1?
No. Stop. Your deduction is not limited. Enter the
amount from line 1 above on Schedule A, line 17.
Yes. Subtract line 2 from line 1
4. Multiply line 3 above by 80% (.80)
5. Enter the amount from Form
1040NR, line 36
6. Enter: $156,400 ($78,200 if you
checked filing status box 3, 4, or 5)
7. Is the amount on line 6 less than the
amount on line 5?
No. Stop. Your deduction is not
limited. Enter the amount from
line 1 above on Schedule A, line
17.
Yes. Subtract line 6 from line 5
8. Multiply line 7 above by 3% (.03).

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
. 8.

used in performing services as an
38b, or Form 4797, line 18a.
Deduction for repayment of amounts
Deductions
Line 16
expense on the dotted lines next to line
16. Enter one total on line 16.
Examples of these expenses are:
Casualty and theft losses of

Enter the smaller of line 4 or line 8 9.

11. Subtract line 10 from line 9
12. Total itemized deductions.
Enter the result here and on Schedule A, line 17

11.
Subtract line 11 from line 1.
12.

pension.

or 2106-EZ, list the type and amount of Line 10
each expense on the dotted lines next Enter the fees you paid for preparation
to line 9. If you need more space, of your tax return. If you paid your tax
attach a statement showing the type by credit card, do not include the
and amount of each expense. Enter convenience fee you were charged.
CAUTION deducted on Form 1040NR, line manage or protect property held for
and glasses. Certain legal and accounting fees.
You claim any travel, and chambers of commerce.
Divide line 9 by 3.0 10.

Your employer paid you for any Fees to employment agencies and
TIP and item (2) above does not home. For details, including limits that
produce or collect taxable income and
personal expenses. List the type and
amount of each expense on the dotted
lines next to line 11. If you need more
space, attach a statement showing the
type and amount of each expense.
Enter one total on line 11.
Your share of the investment
Certain losses on nonfederally
insured deposits in an insolvent or
bankrupt financial institution. For
details, including limits that apply, see
Pub. 529.
Casualty and theft losses of property
employee from Form 4684, lines 32 and
under a claim of right if $3,000 or less.
Other Miscellaneous
List the type and amount of each
income-producing property from Form
4684, lines 32 and 38b, or Form 4797,
line 18a.
Loss from other activities from
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065-B), box 2.
Deduction for repayment of amounts
under a claim of right if over $3,000.
See Pub. 525 for details.
Certain unrecovered investment in a
Impairment-related work expenses of
a disabled person.
For more details, see Pub. 529.
Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 29 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Total Itemized Deductions

copyrights, and other intangible

security, you should receive a Form

property. RRB-1042S.

Line 17
Use the worksheet on page 28 to figure
the amount to enter on line 17 if the
amount on Form 1040NR, line 36, is
over $156,400 ($78,200 if you checked
filing status box 3, 4, or 5).
Tax on Income Not
Effectively Connected
With a U.S. Trade or
Business (Page 4)
The following items are generally taxed
at 30% if they are not effectively
connected with your U.S. trade or
business. The rate may be lower if your
country of residence and the United
States have a treaty setting lower rates.
Table 1 in Pub. 901 summarizes which
countries have such treaties and what
the rates are.
The 30% tax applies only to amounts
included in gross income. For example,
the tax applies only to the part of a
periodic annuity or pension payment

3. Original issue discount (OID). If
you sold or exchanged the obligation,
include in income the OID that accrued
while you held the obligation minus the
amount previously included in income.
If you received a payment on an OID
obligation, see Pub. 519.
4. Capital gains in excess of capital
losses from U.S. sources during 2007.
Include these gains only if you were in
the United States at least 183 days
during 2007. They are not subject to
U.S. tax if you were in the United
States less than 183 days during the
tax year. In determining your net gain,
do not use the capital loss carryover.
Losses from sales or exchanges of
capital assets in excess of similar gains
are not allowed.
If you had a gain or loss on
disposing of a U.S. real property
interest, see Dispositions of U.S. Real
Property Interests on page 6.
5. Prizes, awards, and certain
gambling winnings. Proceeds from
lotteries, raffles, etc., are gambling
winnings (see section 871(j) for
exceptions). You must report the full

Enter 85% of the total amount from
box 5 of all of your Forms SSA-1042S
and Forms RRB-1042S in the
appropriate column of line 83 of
Form 1040NR. Enter any federal tax
withheld in column (a) of line 83. Attach
a copy of each Form SSA-1042S and
RRB-1042S to Form 1040NR.
Withholding of tax at the source.
Tax must be withheld at the source on
certain income from U.S. sources paid
to nonresident aliens. The withholding
is generally at the 30% rate. There are
exceptions to the general rule, and tax
treaties with various countries may
provide a lower rate or exempt certain
income from withholding. The tax must
be withheld by the person who pays
fixed or determinable annual or periodic
income to nonresident aliens. The
income subject to this withholding
should be reported on page 4 of Form
1040NR. For details, see Pub. 519,
Pub. 515, and section 1441 and its
regulations.

that is subject to tax; it does not apply amount of your winnings. You cannot Other Information
offset losses against winnings and
to the part that is a return of your cost. (Page 5)
report the difference.
The following list gives only a
Note. Residents of Canada may claim Item D
general idea of the type of income to
gambling losses, but only to the extent

include on page 4. (For more
information, see Pub. 519.) Include the
following only to the extent the amount
received is not effectively connected
with the conduct of a trade or business
in the United States.
1. Income that is fixed or periodic,
such as interest (other than original
issue discount), dividends, rents,
salaries, wages, premiums, annuities,
other compensation, or alimony
received. Other items of income, such
as royalties, also may be subject to the
30% tax.
Exceptions. The following items of
interest and dividend income that you
received as a nonresident alien
generally are exempt from the 30% tax.
Interest from a U.S. bank, savings
and loan association, or similar
institution, and from certain deposits
with U.S. insurance companies.
Portfolio interest on obligations
issued after July 18, 1984.
Interest-related dividends received
from a mutual fund.
Short-term capital gain dividends
from a mutual fund only if you were
present in the United States for less
than 183 days during the tax year.
U.S. source dividends paid by
certain foreign corporations.
For more information, see Pub. 519.
2. Gains, other than capital gains,
from the sale or exchange of patents,
Instructions for Form 1040NR

of gambling winnings. They should
report both their total gambling
winnings and their total gambling losses
on the dotted line on line 85 (or attach a
separate schedule if more space is
needed). If they have net gambling
winnings (after offsetting their total
gambling losses against their total
gambling winnings), they should include
this net amount on line 85, column (d).
Social security benefits (and tier 1
railroad retirement benefits treated
as social security). 85% of the U.S.
social security and equivalent railroad
retirement benefits you received are
taxable. This amount is treated as U.S.
source income not effectively
connected with a U.S. trade or
business. It is subject to the 30% tax
rate, unless exempt or taxed at a
reduced rate under a U.S. tax treaty.
Social security benefits include any
monthly benefit under title II of the
Social Security Act or the part of a tier 1
railroad retirement benefit treated as a
social security benefit. They do not
include any Supplemental Security
Income (SSI) payments.
You should receive a Form
SSA-1042S showing the total social
security benefits paid to you in 2007
and the amount of any benefits you
repaid in 2007. If you received railroad
retirement benefits treated as social
-29-

Enter your current nonimmigrant status.
For example, enter your current
nonimmigrant status shown on your
current U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (USCIS) Form
I-94, Arrival-Departure Record. If your
status has changed while in the United
States, enter the date of change. If your
status has not changed, enter “N/A.”
Item E
You are generally required to enter
your date of entry into the United States
that pertains to your current
nonimmigrant status (for example, the
date of arrival shown on your most
recent USCIS Form I-94).
Exception. If you are claiming a tax
treaty benefit that is determined by
reference to more than one date of
arrival, enter the earlier date of arrival.
For example, you are currently claiming
treaty benefits (as a teacher) under
article 20 of the tax treaty between the
United States and the Republic of
Korea (South Korea). You previously
claimed treaty benefits (as a student)
under article 21 of that treaty. Under
article 21, paragraph 4, of that treaty,
the combination of consecutive
exemptions under articles 20 and 21
may not extend beyond 5 tax years
from the date you entered the United
States as a student. If article 21,
paragraph 4, of that treaty applies,Page 30 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

enter in item E the date you entered the

reports the required information on its “By (your signature), parent for minor

United States as a student. return. child.”

5. The payments or items of income Paid preparer must sign your return.

Item M that otherwise are required to be
If you are a resident of a treaty country
(that is, you qualify as a resident of that
country within the meaning of the tax Item P
treaty between the United States and
If you expatriated, see
that country), you must know the terms
of the tax treaty between the United
U.S. Long-Term Residents
States and the treaty country to

Generally, anyone you pay to prepare
disclosed total no more than $10,000. your return must sign it in the space
provided. The preparer must give you a
copy of the return for your records.
Someone who prepares your return but
Special Rules
does not charge you should not sign
for Former U.S. Citizens and Former
your return.
beginning

on page 6 for details on how to answer Income Tax Withholding and

properly complete item M. You may

the question in item P and for Estimated Tax Payments for

download the complete text of most

information that must be included in the Individuals for 2008

U.S. tax treaties at www.irs.gov.

annual information statement, if

Technical explanations for many of
required. If you are a former U.S.
those treaties are also available at that
site. Also, see Pub. 901 for a quick
return for your last year of U.S.
reference guide to the provisions of
U.S. tax treaties.
8854. See
If you are claiming treaty benefits on begins on page 4.
Form 1040NR, you must provide all of
the information requested in item M. Item R
If you are claiming tax treaty
! benefits and you failed to submit
CAUTION adequate documentation to a
withholding agent, you must attach all
Total compensation includes all
information that otherwise would have
been required on the withholding without the United States.
document (for example, all information
required on Form W-8BEN or
Form 8233).

If the amount you owe or the amount
you overpaid is large, you may be able
long-term resident filing a dual-status
to file a new Form W-4 with your
employer to change the amount of
residency, you must also attach Form
income tax withheld from your 2008
Dual-Status Taxpayers that
pay. For details on how to complete
Form W-4, see the Instructions for
Form 8233. If you have pension or
annuity income, use Form W-4P. If you
If you received total compensation of
receive certain government payments
$250,000 or more for 2007 and you are
using an alternative basis to determine (such as unemployment compensation
the source, check the box in item R. or social security benefits), you can
have tax withheld from those payments
by giving the payer Form W-4V.
compensation from sources within and
In general, you do not have to make
estimated tax payments if you expect
If you are required to check the box that your 2008 Form 1040NR will show
in item R, you must attach a statement a tax refund or a tax balance due the

to your return. For details about the IRS of less than $1,000. If your total

Treaty-based return position statement and the alternative basis, see

estimated tax (including any household

disclosure. If you take the position Services performed partly inside and

employment taxes or alternative

that a treaty of the United States partly outside the United States on

minimum tax) for 2008 is $1,000 or

overrides or modifies any provision of page 10.

more, see Form 1040-ES(NR). It has a

the Internal Revenue Code and that

worksheet you can use to see if you

position reduces (or potentially

have to make estimated tax payments.

reduces) your tax, you must report Reminders
certain information on Form 8833 and
attach it to Form 1040NR.

However, if you expect to be a resident
of Puerto Rico during all of 2008 and

Sign and Date Your Return you must pay estimated tax, use Form

You can be charged a $1,000 1040-ES.

Form 1040NR is not considered a valid

penalty for each failure to report the

return unless you sign it. You can have Secure Your Tax Records from

required information. For more details,

an agent in the United States prepare Identity Theft

see Form 8833 and Regulations section

and sign your return if you could not do

301.6114-1.
so for one of the following reasons:
Exceptions. You do not have to file You were ill.

Identity theft occurs when someone
uses your personal information such as
your name, social security number

Form 8833 for any of the following You were not in the United States at

(SSN), or other identifying information,

situations. any time during the 60 days before the

without your permission, to commit

1. You claim a treaty reduces the return was due.
withholding tax on interest, dividends,
rents, royalties, or other fixed or in writing to the Department of the
determinable annual or periodic income Treasury, Internal Revenue Service

fraud or other crimes. An identity thief
For other reasons that you explained may use your SSN to get a job or may
file a tax return using your SSN to
receive a refund.

ordinarily subject to the 30% rate. Center, Austin, TX 73301-0215 U.S.A.,

and that the IRS approved. To reduce your risk:

2. You claim a treaty reduces or

Protect your SSN,

modifies the taxation of income from A return prepared by an agent must

Ensure your employer is protecting

dependent personal services, pensions, be accompanied by a power of

your SSN, and

annuities, social security and other attorney. Form 2848 may be used for

Be careful when choosing a tax

public pensions, or income of artists, this purpose.

preparer.

athletes, students, trainees, or

teachers. This includes taxable
scholarship and fellowship grants.
3. You claim an International Social States in the space provided. If you
Security Agreement or a Diplomatic or
Consular Agreement reduces or
of the return.
modifies the taxation of income.
4. You are a partner in a partnership Child’s return.
or a beneficiary of an estate or trust
and the partnership, estate, or trust

Be sure to date your return and Call the IRS at 1-800-829-1040 if
show your occupation(s) in the United you think your identity has been used
inappropriately for tax purposes.
have someone prepare your return, you
Victims of identity theft who are
are still responsible for the correctness
experiencing economic harm or a
systemic problem, or are seeking help
If your child cannot in resolving tax problems that have not
sign the return, you can sign the child’s been resolved through normal
name in the space provided. Then, add channels, may be eligible for Taxpayer
-30- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 31 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Advocate Service (TAS) assistance.
You can reach TAS by calling the TAS
toll-free case intake line at
1-877-777-4778 or TTY/TDD
1-800-829-4059.
Protect yourself from suspicious
emails or phishing schemes.
Phishing is the creation and use of
email and websites designed to mimic
legitimate business emails and
websites. The most common form is the
act of sending an email to a user falsely
claiming to be an established legitimate
enterprise in an attempt to scam the
user into surrendering private
information that will be used for identity
theft.
The IRS does not initiate contacts
with taxpayers via emails. Also, the IRS
does not request detailed personal
information through email or ask
taxpayers for the PIN numbers,
passwords, or similar secret access
information for their credit card, bank,
or other financial accounts.
If you receive an unsolicited email
claiming to be from the IRS, forward the
message to phishing@irs.gov. You may
also report misuse of the IRS name,
logo, forms, or other IRS property to the
Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration toll-free at
1-800-366-4484. You can forward
suspicious emails to the Federal Trade
Commission at spam@uce.gov or
contact them at www.ftc.gov/idtheft or
1-877-IDTHEFT (1-877-438-4338).
Visit the IRS website at www.irs.gov
to learn more about identity theft and
how to reduce your risk.
Gift To Reduce Debt Held By
the Public
If you wish to make such a gift, make a
check payable to “Bureau of the Public
Debt.” You can send it to: Bureau of the
Public Debt, Department G, P.O. Box
2188, Parkersburg, WV 26106-2188. Or
you can enclose the check with your
income tax return when you file. Do not
add your gift to any tax you may owe.
See page 25 for details on how to pay
any tax you owe.
You may be able to deduct this
TIP gift on your 2008 tax return as a
charitable contribution.
Address Change
If you move after filing your return,
always notify the IRS of your new
address. To do this, use Form 8822.
How Long Should Records Be
Kept?
Keep a copy of your tax return,
worksheets you used, and records of all
items appearing on it (such as Forms
W-2, 1099, and 1042-S) until the
statute of limitations runs out for that
return. Usually, this is 3 years from the
Instructions for Form 1040NR

date the return was due or filed or 2
years from the date the tax was paid,
whichever is later. You should keep
some records longer. For example,
keep property records (including those
on your home) as long as they are
needed to figure the basis of the
original or replacement property. For
more details, see Pub. 552.
Amended Return
File Form 1040X to change a return
you already filed. Also, use
Form 1040X if you filed Form 1040NR
and you should have filed a Form 1040,
1040A, or 1040EZ, or vice versa.
Generally, Form 1040X must be filed
Requesting a Copy of Your Tax
Return
If you need a copy of your tax return,
use Form 4506. There is $39 fee
(subject to change) for each return
requested. If your main home, principal
place of business, or tax records are
located in a Presidentially declared
disaster area, this fee will be waived. If
call us at 1-800-829-1040.
Past Due Returns
The integrity of our tax system and
large degree, on the timely filing and
payment of taxes by each individual,
family, and business in this country.
fair share increase the burden on the
rest of us to support our schools,
maintain and repair roadways, and the
many other ways our tax dollars help to
make life easier for all citizens.
Some people don’t know they should
file a tax return; some don’t file
because they expect a refund; and
some don’t file because they owe
taxes. Encourage your family,
neighbors, friends, and coworkers to do
returns and paying any tax due on time.
irs.gov and click on “Individuals” for
Interest and Penalties
You do not have to figure the amount of
any interest or penalties you may owe.
Because figuring these amounts can be
complicated, we will do it for you if you
want. We will send you a bill for any
amount due.
-31-

If you include interest or penalties
(other than the estimated tax penalty)
with your payment, identify and enter
the amount in the bottom margin of
Form 1040NR, page 2. Do not include
interest or penalties (other than the
estimated tax penalty) in the amount
you owe on line 74.
on taxes not paid by their due date,
even if an extension of time to file is
granted. We also will charge you
interest on penalties imposed for failure
to file, negligence, fraud, substantial
valuation misstatements, substantial
understatements of tax, and reportable
transaction understatements. Interest is
charged on the penalty from the due
date of the return (including
extensions).
Penalty for late filing. If you do not
file your return by the due date
(including extensions), the penalty is
usually 5% of the amount due for each
month or part of a month your return is
late, unless you have a reasonable
explanation. If you do, attach it to your
25% of the tax due. The penalty is 15%
per month, up to a maximum of 75%, if
the failure to file is fraudulent. If your
return is more than 60 days late, the
minimum penalty will be $100 or the
amount of any tax you owe, whichever
you pay your taxes late, the penalty is
for each month or part of a month the
tax is not paid. The penalty can be as
applies to any unpaid tax on the return.
This penalty is in addition to interest
charges on late payments.
addition to any other penalties, the law
imposes a penalty of $5,000 for filing a
frivolous return. A frivolous return is one
that does not contain information
needed to figure the correct tax or
shows a substantially incorrect tax
because you take a frivolous position or
desire to delay or interfere with the tax
laws. This includes altering or striking
space where you sign. For a list of
Notice 2007-30, 2007-14 I.R.B. 883,
transaction understatements, filing an
erroneous refund claim, and fraud.
Criminal penalties may be imposed for
willful failure to file, tax evasion, or
making a false statement. See Pub.
519 for details on some of these
penalties.

within 3 years after the date the original

return was filed or within 2 years after

the date the tax was paid, whichever is

later. But you may have more time to

file Form 1040X if you are physically or

mentally unable to manage your

financial affairs. See Pub. 556 for

details.

you want a free transcript of your tax is smaller.

return or account, use Form 4506-T or
well-being of our country depend, to a
Those choosing not to file and pay their
their fair share by filing their federal tax
If you or someone you know needs
to file past due tax returns, visit www.
help in filing those returns.

Penalty for late payment of tax. If
much as 25% of the unpaid amount. It
Penalty for frivolous return. In
positions identified as frivolous, see
available at www.irs.gov/irb/
2007-14_IRB/ar20.html.
be imposed for negligence, substantial

Interest. We will charge you interest
return. The penalty can be as much as
usually ¹/2 of 1% of the unpaid amount
out the preprinted language above the
Other penalties. Other penalties can
understatement of tax, reportablePage 32 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Taxpayer Assistance
IRS assistance is available to help you
prepare your return. But you should
know that you are responsible for the
accuracy of your return. If we do make
an error, you are still responsible for the
payment of the correct tax.

system or procedure is not working as it
should.
You can contact the Taxpayer
Advocate Service by calling the TAS
toll-free case intake line at
1-877-777-4778 or TTY/TDD
1-800-829-4059 to see if you are

tax information to the Department of
Treasury and contractors for tax
administration purposes; and to other
persons as necessary to obtain
information that we cannot get in any
other way in order to determine the
amount of or to collect the tax you owe.

In the United States, you may call eligible for assistance. If overseas, call

1-800-829-1040. For TTY/TDD help, 01-787-622-8940 (English-speaking

call 1-800-829-4059. If overseas, you only) or 01-787-622-8930

may call 215-516-2000 (Spanish-speaking only). These

(English-speaking only). This number is numbers are not toll free. You also can

not toll free. call or write your local taxpayer

If you wish to write instead of call,
please address your letter to: Internal
Revenue Service, International Section,
P.O. Box 920, Bensalem, PA
19020-8518. Make sure you include
your identifying number (defined on
page 8) when you write.

agencies; and to other federal agencies
for purposes of determining entitlement
for benefits or the eligibility for and the
repayment of loans. We may also
disclose this information to other
countries under a tax treaty, to federal
and state agencies to enforce federal

Assistance in answering tax Taxpayer Advocate Service, or ask an

questions and filling out tax returns is IRS employee to complete it on your

also available in person from IRS behalf. For more information, go to

offices in London, Paris, and Frankfurt.
The offices generally are located in the
U.S. embassies or consulates.
The IRS conducts an overseas
taxpayer assistance program during the
filing season (January to mid-June). To
find out if IRS personnel will be in your
area, contact the consular office at the
nearest U.S. embassy.
Solving problems. You can get
face-to-face help solving tax problems
every business day in IRS Taxpayer
Assistance Centers. An employee can
explain IRS letters, request adjustments
to your account, or help you set up a
payment plan. Call your local Taxpayer
Assistance Center for an appointment.
To find the number, go to www.irs.gov/
localcontacts or look in a U.S. phone
book under “United States Government,
Internal Revenue Service.”
How can you get IRS tax forms and
publications?
You can download them from the IRS
website at www.irs.gov.
In the United States, you can call
1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676).
You can send your order to the
National Distribution Center, P.O. Box
8903, Bloomington, IL 61702-8903
U.S.A.

www.irs.gov/advocate.
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and
of tax. Section 6109 requires paid
return preparers to provide their
identifying number.

Keep this notice with your records. It
may help you if we ask you for other
information. If you have any questions
about the rules for filing and giving
information, call or visit any Internal
Revenue Service office.
asterisk must be included in the
address.) Please put “Forms Comment”
on the subject line. Or you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax
Products Coordinating Committee,
SE:W:CAR:MP:T:T:SP, 1111
Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526,
Washington, DC 20224. Do not send
your return to this address. Instead, see
Where To File on page 4.

You can pick them up in person from Generally, tax returns and return

our U.S. embassies and consulates information are confidential, as required

abroad (but only during the tax return by section 6103. However, section

filing period). 6103 allows or requires the Internal

Help With Unresolved Tax

Issues
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
is an independent organization within
the IRS whose employees assist
taxpayers who are experiencing
economic harm, who are seeking help
in resolving tax problems that have not
been resolved through normal
channels, or who believe that an IRS

to others as described in the Code. For
example, we may disclose your tax
information to the Department of
Justice, to enforce the tax laws, both
civil and criminal, and to cities, states,
the District of Columbia, U.S.
commonwealths or possessions, and
their tax laws. We may disclose your

necessarily reflect a “typical” case. The
averages include all associated forms
and schedules, across all preparation
methods and all taxpayer activities.
Within each of these estimates, there is
significant variation in taxpayer activity.
Similarly, tax preparation fees vary
certain foreign governments to carry out extensively depending on the
taxpayer’s tax situation and issues, the

advocate, whose address and phone

number are listed in your local

telephone directory and in Pub. 1546,

Taxpayer Advocate Service— Your

Voice at the IRS. You can file Form

911, Request for Taxpayer Advocate

Service Assistance (and Application for

Taxpayer Assistance Order), with the

Paperwork Reduction Act Notice.

We ask for the information on this form

to carry out the Internal Revenue laws

of the United States. Sections 6001,

6011, 6012(a) and their regulations
require that you give us information. We
need it to ensure that you are
complying with these laws and to allow
us to figure and collect the right amount
This notice applies to all papers you
file with us, including this tax return. It
also applies to any questions we need
to ask you so we can complete, correct,
or process your return; figure your tax;
and collect tax, interest, or penalties.
You are not required to provide the
information requested on a form that is
subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act
unless the form displays a valid OMB
control number. Books or records
relating to a form or its instructions
must be retained as long as their
contents may become material in the
administration of any Internal Revenue
law.
Revenue Service to disclose or give the
information you write on your tax return

We welcome comments on forms.
If you have comments or suggestions
for making this form simpler, we would
be happy to hear from you. You can
email us at *taxforms@irs.gov. (The
Estimates of taxpayer burden. The
table below shows average burden
estimates for taxpayers filing a Form
1040NR. Time spent and out-of-pocket
costs are estimated separately.
Out-of-pocket costs include any
expenses incurred by taxpayers to
prepare and submit their tax returns.
Examples of out-of-pocket costs include
Both time and cost burdens are
national averages and do not

We may disclose your tax information
to the Comptroller General of the
United States to permit the Comptroller
General to review the Internal Revenue
Service. We may disclose your tax
information to Committees of Congress;
federal, state, and local child support
nontax criminal laws, or to federal law
enforcement and intelligence agencies
to combat terrorism.
tax return preparation and submission
fees, postage, tax preparation software
costs, photocopying costs, and phone
calls (if not toll-free).
Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 33 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

type of professional preparer, and the conducted 2000 and 2001. The If you have comments concerning

geographic area. estimates are subject to change as new the time and cost estimates below, you

data becomes available. The estimates can contact us at either one of the

The data shown are the best do not include burden associated with addresses shown under We welcome

estimates available as of September post-filing activities. However, comments on forms on page 32.

28, 2007, from tax returns filed for operational IRS data indicates that

2006. The method used to estimate electronically prepared returns have

taxpayer burden incorporates results fewer errors, implying a lower overall

from a taxpayer burden survey post-filing burden.

Estimated Average Taxpayer Burden

The average time and costs required to complete and file Form 1040NR, its schedules, and accompanying forms will vary depending on

individual circumstances. The estimated averages are:

Average Hours per Return Average Dollars per Return

29.5 $204

Instructions for Form 1040NR -33-Page 34 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table
See the instructions for line 41 that begin on page 18 to see if you can use the Tax
!
Table below to figure your tax.
CAUTION

Sample Table
At But Single Qualifying Married
least less Widow(er) filing
than separately
Your tax is—

Example. Mr. Green is filing as a qualifying widower. His taxable income on line 40

25,200 25,250 3,393 3,001 3,393

of Form 1040NR is $25,300. First, he finds the $25,300-25,350 income line. Next
he finds the column for qualifying widower and reads down the column. The
amount shown where the income line and filing status column meet is $3,016. This
is the tax amount he must enter on line 41 of his Form 1040NR.

25,250 25,300 3,400 3,009 3,400
25,300 25,350 3,408 3,016 3,408
25,350 25,400 3,415 3,024 3,415

If Form If Form If Form

1040NR, And you are— 1040NR,

And you are— 1040NR, And you are—

line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single
least less widow(er) filing least less
than separately than

Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married
widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
separately than separately

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

1,300 1,325 13105000

1,325 1,350 134515 111

1,350 1,375 13615 25 222

1,375 1,400 13925 50 444

50 75 6661,400 1,425 141

75 100 9991,425 1,450 144

100 125 11 11 11 1,450 1,475 146

125 150 14 14 14 1,475 1,500 149

150 175 16 16 16 1,500 1,525 151

175 200 19 19 19 1,525 1,550 154

200 225 21 21 21 1,550 1,575 156

225 250 24 24 24 1,575 1,600 159

250 275 26 26 26 1,600 1,625 161

131 131 2,700 2,725 271 271 271
134 134 2,725 2,750 274 274 274
136 136 2,750 2,775 276 276 276
139 139 2,775 2,800 279 279 279
141 141 2,800 2,825 281 281 281
144 144 2,825 2,850 284 284 284
146 146 2,850 2,875 286 286 286
149 149 2,875 2,900 289 289 289
151 151 2,900 2,925 291 291 291
154 154 2,925 2,950 294 294 294
156 156 2,950 2,975 296 296 296
159 159 2,975 3,000 299 299 299
161 161

275 300 29 29 29 1,625 1,650 164 164 164 3,000

1,650 1,675 166 166 166

300 325 31 31 31

325 350 34 34 34 1,675 1,700 169
350 375 36 36 36 1,700 1,725 171
375 400 39 39 39 1,725 1,750 174

169 169 3,000 3,050 303 303 303
171 171 3,050 3,100 308 308 308
174 174 3,100 3,150 313 313 313

1,750 1,775 176 176 176 3,150 3,200 318 318 318

400 425 41 41 41 1,775 1,800 179 179 179

425 450 44 44 44
450 475 46 46 46 1,800 1,825 181
475 500 49 49 49 1,825 1,850 184

3,200 3,250 323 323 323
181 181 3,250 3,300 328 328 328
184 184 3,300 3,350 333 333 333

1,850 1,875 186 186 186 3,350 3,400 338 338 338

500 525 51 51 51 1,875 1,900 189 189 189

525 550 54 54 54
550 575 56 56 56 1,900 1,925 191
575 600 59 59 59 1,925 1,950 194

3,400 3,450 343 343 343
191 191 3,450 3,500 348 348 348
194 194 3,500 3,550 353 353 353

1,950 1,975 196 196 196 3,550 3,600 358 358 358

600 625 61 61 61 1,975 2,000 199 199 199

625 650 64 64 64
650 675 66 66 66 2,000
675 700 69 69 69
700 725 71 71 71 2,000 2,025 201
725 750 74 74 74 2,025 2,050 204
750 775 76 76 76 2,050 2,075 206
775 800 79 79 79 2,075 2,100 209

3,600 3,650 363 363 363
3,650 3,700 368 368 368
3,700 3,750 373 373 373
3,750 3,800 378 378 378
201 201
204 204 3,800 3,850 383 383 383
206 206 3,850 3,900 388 388 388
209 209 3,900 3,950 393 393 393

2,100 2,125 211 211 211 3,950 4,000 398 398 398

800 825 81 81 81

825 850 84 84 84 2,125 2,150 214 214 214

850 875 86 86 86 2,150 2,175 216 216 216 4,000

875 900 89 89 89 2,175 2,200 219 219 219

4,000 4,050 403 403 403

900 925 91 91 91 2,200 2,225 221
925 950 94 94 94 2,225 2,250 224
950 975 96 96 96 2,250 2,275 226
975 1,000 99 99 99 2,275 2,300 229

221 221 4,050 4,100 408 408 408
224 224 4,100 4,150 413 413 413
226 226 4,150 4,200 418 418 418
229 229

2,300 2,325 231 231 231 4,200 4,250 423 423 423

2,325 2,350 234 234 234 4,250 4,300 428 428 428

1,000 2,350 2,375 236

236 236 4,300 4,350 433 433 433

2,375 2,400 239 239 239 4,350 4,400 438 438 438

1,000 1,025 101 101 101

1,025 1,050 104 104 104 2,400 2,425 241
1,050 1,075 106 106 106 2,425 2,450 244
1,075 1,100 109 109 109 2,450 2,475 246

241 241 4,400 4,450 443 443 443
244 244 4,450 4,500 448 448 448
246 246 4,500 4,550 453 453 453

2,475 2,500 249 249 249 4,550 4,600 458 458 458

1,100 1,125 111 111 111

1,125 1,150 114 114 114 2,500 2,525 251
1,150 1,175 116 116 116 2,525 2,550 254
1,175 1,200 119 119 119 2,550 2,575 256

251 251 4,600 4,650 463 463 463
254 254 4,650 4,700 468 468 468
256 256 4,700 4,750 473 473 473

2,575 2,600 259 259 259 4,750 4,800 478 478 478

1,200 1,225 121 121 121

1,225 1,250 124 124 124 2,600 2,625 261
1,250 1,275 126 126 126 2,625 2,650 264
1,275 1,300 129 129 129 2,650 2,675 266

261 261 4,800 4,850 483 483 483
264 264 4,850 4,900 488 488 488
266 266 4,900 4,950 493 493 493

2,675 2,700 269 269 269 4,950 5,000 498 498 498

(Continued on page 35)
- 34 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 35 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table– Continued

1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—

line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing

than separately than separately than separately

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

5,000 8,000 11,000

5,000 5,050 503

5,050 5,100 508

5,100 5,150 513

5,150 5,200 518

5,200 5,250 523

5,250 5,300 528

5,300 5,350 533

5,350 5,400 538

5,400 5,450 543

5,450 5,500 548

5,500 5,550 553

5,550 5,600 558

5,600 5,650 563

5,650 5,700 568

5,700 5,750 573

5,750 5,800 578

5,800 5,850 583

5,850 5,900 588

5,900 5,950 593

5,950 6,000 598

6,000

6,000 6,050 603

6,050 6,100 608

6,100 6,150 613

6,150 6,200 618

6,200 6,250 623

6,250 6,300 628

6,300 6,350 633

6,350 6,400 638

6,400 6,450 643

6,450 6,500 648

6,500 6,550 653

6,550 6,600 658

6,600 6,650 663

6,650 6,700 668

6,700 6,750 673

6,750 6,800 678

6,800 6,850 683

6,850 6,900 688

6,900 6,950 693

6,950 7,000 698

7,000

7,000 7,050 703

7,050 7,100 708

7,100 7,150 713

7,150 7,200 718

7,200 7,250 723

7,250 7,300 728

7,300 7,350 733

7,350 7,400 738

7,400 7,450 743

7,450 7,500 748

7,500 7,550 753

7,550 7,600 758

7,600 7,650 763

7,650 7,700 768

7,700 7,750 773

7,750 7,800 778

7,800 7,850 783

7,850 7,900 790

7,900 7,950 798

7,950 8,000 805

503
508
513
518
523
528
533
538
543
548
553
558
563
568
573
578
583
588
593
598
603
608
613
618
623
628
633
638
643
648
653
658
663
668
673
678
683
688
693
698
703
708
713
718
723
728
733
738
743
748
753
758
763
768
773
778
783
788
793
798

503
508
513
518
523
528
533
538
543
548
553
558
563
568
573
578
583
588
593
598
603
608
613
618
623
628
633
638
643
648
653
658
663
668
673
678
683
688
693
698
703
708
713
718
723
728
733
738
743
748
753
758
763
768
773
778
783
790
798
805

8,000 8,050 813 803

8,050 8,100 820 808

8,100 8,150 828 813

8,150 8,200 835 818

8,200 8,250 843 823

8,250 8,300 850 828

8,300 8,350 858 833

8,350 8,400 865 838

8,400 8,450 873 843

8,450 8,500 880 848

8,500 8,550 888 853

8,550 8,600 895 858

8,600 8,650 903 863

8,650 8,700 910 868

8,700 8,750 918 873

8,750 8,800 925 878

8,800 8,850 933 883

8,850 8,900 940 888

8,900 8,950 948 893

8,950 9,000 955 898

9,000

9,000 9,050 963 903

9,050 9,100 970 908

9,100 9,150 978 913

9,150 9,200 985 918

9,200 9,250 993 923

9,250 9,300 1,000 928

9,300 9,350 1,008 933

9,350 9,400 1,015 938

9,400 9,450 1,023 943

9,450 9,500 1,030 948

9,500 9,550 1,038 953

9,550 9,600 1,045 958

9,600 9,650 1,053 963

9,650 9,700 1,060 968

9,700 9,750 1,068 973

9,750 9,800 1,075 978

9,800 9,850 1,083 983

9,850 9,900 1,090 988

9,900 9,950 1,098 993

9,950 10,000 1,105 998

10,000

10,000 10,050 1,113 1,003

10,050 10,100 1,120 1,008

10,100 10,150 1,128 1,013

10,150 10,200 1,135 1,018

10,200 10,250 1,143 1,023

10,250 10,300 1,150 1,028

10,300 10,350 1,158 1,033

10,350 10,400 1,165 1,038

10,400 10,450 1,173 1,043

10,450 10,500 1,180 1,048

10,500 10,550 1,188 1,053

10,550 10,600 1,195 1,058

10,600 10,650 1,203 1,063

10,650 10,700 1,210 1,068

10,700 10,750 1,218 1,073

10,750 10,800 1,225 1,078

10,800 10,850 1,233 1,083

10,850 10,900 1,240 1,088

10,900 10,950 1,248 1,093

10,950 11,000 1,255 1,098

813 11,000 11,050 1,263 1,103 1,263

820 11,050 11,100 1,270 1,108 1,270

828 11,100 11,150 1,278 1,113 1,278

835 11,150 11,200 1,285 1,118 1,285

843 11,200 11,250 1,293 1,123 1,293

850 11,250 11,300 1,300 1,128 1,300

858 11,300 11,350 1,308 1,133 1,308

865 11,350 11,400 1,315 1,138 1,315

873 11,400 11,450 1,323 1,143 1,323

880 11,450 11,500 1,330 1,148 1,330

888 11,500 11,550 1,338 1,153 1,338

895 11,550 11,600 1,345 1,158 1,345

903 11,600 11,650 1,353 1,163 1,353

910 11,650 11,700 1,360 1,168 1,360

918 11,700 11,750 1,368 1,173 1,368

925 11,750 11,800 1,375 1,178 1,375

933 11,800 11,850 1,383 1,183 1,383

940 11,850 11,900 1,390 1,188 1,390

948 11,900 11,950 1,398 1,193 1,398

955 11,950 12,000 1,405 1,198 1,405

12,000

963 12,000 12,050 1,413 1,203 1,413

970 12,050 12,100 1,420 1,208 1,420

978 12,100 12,150 1,428 1,213 1,428

985 12,150 12,200 1,435 1,218 1,435

993 12,200 12,250 1,443 1,223 1,443

1,000 12,250 12,300 1,450 1,228 1,450

1,008 12,300 12,350 1,458 1,233 1,458

1,015 12,350 12,400 1,465 1,238 1,465

1,023 12,400 12,450 1,473 1,243 1,473

1,030 12,450 12,500 1,480 1,248 1,480

1,038 12,500 12,550 1,488 1,253 1,488

1,045 12,550 12,600 1,495 1,258 1,495

1,053 12,600 12,650 1,503 1,263 1,503

1,060 12,650 12,700 1,510 1,268 1,510

1,068 12,700 12,750 1,518 1,273 1,518

1,075 12,750 12,800 1,525 1,278 1,525

1,083 12,800 12,850 1,533 1,283 1,533

1,090 12,850 12,900 1,540 1,288 1,540

1,098 12,900 12,950 1,548 1,293 1,548

1,105 12,950 13,000 1,555 1,298 1,555

13,000

1,113 13,000 13,050 1,563 1,303 1,563

1,120 13,050 13,100 1,570 1,308 1,570

1,128 13,100 13,150 1,578 1,313 1,578

1,135 13,150 13,200 1,585 1,318 1,585

1,143 13,200 13,250 1,593 1,323 1,593

1,150 13,250 13,300 1,600 1,328 1,600

1,158 13,300 13,350 1,608 1,333 1,608

1,165 13,350 13,400 1,615 1,338 1,615

1,173 13,400 13,450 1,623 1,343 1,623

1,180 13,450 13,500 1,630 1,348 1,630

1,188 13,500 13,550 1,638 1,353 1,638

1,195 13,550 13,600 1,645 1,358 1,645

1,203 13,600 13,650 1,653 1,363 1,653

1,210 13,650 13,700 1,660 1,368 1,660

1,218 13,700 13,750 1,668 1,373 1,668

1,225 13,750 13,800 1,675 1,378 1,675

1,233 13,800 13,850 1,683 1,383 1,683

1,240 13,850 13,900 1,690 1,388 1,690

1,248 13,900 13,950 1,698 1,393 1,698

1,255 13,950 14,000 1,705 1,398 1,705

If Form If Form If Form

(Continued on page 36)

Instructions for Form 1040NR - 35 -Page 36 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

14,000
14,000 14,050 1,713 1,403 1,713
14,050 14,100 1,720 1,408 1,720
14,100 14,150 1,728 1,413 1,728
14,150 14,200 1,735 1,418 1,735
14,200 14,250 1,743 1,423 1,743
14,250 14,300 1,750 1,428 1,750
14,300 14,350 1,758 1,433 1,758
14,350 14,400 1,765 1,438 1,765
14,400 14,450 1,773 1,443 1,773
14,450 14,500 1,780 1,448 1,780
14,500 14,550 1,788 1,453 1,788
14,550 14,600 1,795 1,458 1,795
14,600 14,650 1,803 1,463 1,803
14,650 14,700 1,810 1,468 1,810
14,700 14,750 1,818 1,473 1,818
14,750 14,800 1,825 1,478 1,825
14,800 14,850 1,833 1,483 1,833
14,850 14,900 1,840 1,488 1,840
14,900 14,950 1,848 1,493 1,848
14,950 15,000 1,855 1,498 1,855
15,000
15,000 15,050 1,863 1,503 1,863
15,050 15,100 1,870 1,508 1,870
15,100 15,150 1,878 1,513 1,878
15,150 15,200 1,885 1,518 1,885
15,200 15,250 1,893 1,523 1,893
15,250 15,300 1,900 1,528 1,900
15,300 15,350 1,908 1,533 1,908
15,350 15,400 1,915 1,538 1,915
15,400 15,450 1,923 1,543 1,923
15,450 15,500 1,930 1,548 1,930
15,500 15,550 1,938 1,553 1,938
15,550 15,600 1,945 1,558 1,945
15,600 15,650 1,953 1,563 1,953
15,650 15,700 1,960 1,569 1,960
15,700 15,750 1,968 1,576 1,968
15,750 15,800 1,975 1,584 1,975
15,800 15,850 1,983 1,591 1,983
15,850 15,900 1,990 1,599 1,990
15,900 15,950 1,998 1,606 1,998
15,950 16,000 2,005 1,614 2,005
16,000
16,000 16,050 2,013 1,621 2,013
16,050 16,100 2,020 1,629 2,020
16,100 16,150 2,028 1,636 2,028
16,150 16,200 2,035 1,644 2,035
16,200 16,250 2,043 1,651 2,043
16,250 16,300 2,050 1,659 2,050
16,300 16,350 2,058 1,666 2,058
16,350 16,400 2,065 1,674 2,065
16,400 16,450 2,073 1,681 2,073
16,450 16,500 2,080 1,689 2,080
16,500 16,550 2,088 1,696 2,088
16,550 16,600 2,095 1,704 2,095
16,600 16,650 2,103 1,711 2,103
16,650 16,700 2,110 1,719 2,110
16,700 16,750 2,118 1,726 2,118
16,750 16,800 2,125 1,734 2,125
16,800 16,850 2,133 1,741 2,133
16,850 16,900 2,140 1,749 2,140
16,900 16,950 2,148 1,756 2,148
16,950 17,000 2,155 1,764 2,155

17,000
17,000 17,050 2,163 1,771 2,163
17,050 17,100 2,170 1,779 2,170
17,100 17,150 2,178 1,786 2,178
17,150 17,200 2,185 1,794 2,185
17,200 17,250 2,193 1,801 2,193
17,250 17,300 2,200 1,809 2,200
17,300 17,350 2,208 1,816 2,208
17,350 17,400 2,215 1,824 2,215
17,400 17,450 2,223 1,831 2,223
17,450 17,500 2,230 1,839 2,230
17,500 17,550 2,238 1,846 2,238
17,550 17,600 2,245 1,854 2,245
17,600 17,650 2,253 1,861 2,253
17,650 17,700 2,260 1,869 2,260
17,700 17,750 2,268 1,876 2,268
17,750 17,800 2,275 1,884 2,275
17,800 17,850 2,283 1,891 2,283
17,850 17,900 2,290 1,899 2,290
17,900 17,950 2,298 1,906 2,298
17,950 18,000 2,305 1,914 2,305
18,000
18,000 18,050 2,313 1,921 2,313
18,050 18,100 2,320 1,929 2,320
18,100 18,150 2,328 1,936 2,328
18,150 18,200 2,335 1,944 2,335
18,200 18,250 2,343 1,951 2,343
18,250 18,300 2,350 1,959 2,350
18,300 18,350 2,358 1,966 2,358
18,350 18,400 2,365 1,974 2,365
18,400 18,450 2,373 1,981 2,373
18,450 18,500 2,380 1,989 2,380
18,500 18,550 2,388 1,996 2,388
18,550 18,600 2,395 2,004 2,395
18,600 18,650 2,403 2,011 2,403
18,650 18,700 2,410 2,019 2,410
18,700 18,750 2,418 2,026 2,418
18,750 18,800 2,425 2,034 2,425
18,800 18,850 2,433 2,041 2,433
18,850 18,900 2,440 2,049 2,440
18,900 18,950 2,448 2,056 2,448
18,950 19,000 2,455 2,064 2,455
19,000
19,000 19,050 2,463 2,071 2,463
19,050 19,100 2,470 2,079 2,470
19,100 19,150 2,478 2,086 2,478
19,150 19,200 2,485 2,094 2,485
19,200 19,250 2,493 2,101 2,493
19,250 19,300 2,500 2,109 2,500
19,300 19,350 2,508 2,116 2,508
19,350 19,400 2,515 2,124 2,515
19,400 19,450 2,523 2,131 2,523
19,450 19,500 2,530 2,139 2,530
19,500 19,550 2,538 2,146 2,538
19,550 19,600 2,545 2,154 2,545
19,600 19,650 2,553 2,161 2,553
19,650 19,700 2,560 2,169 2,560
19,700 19,750 2,568 2,176 2,568
19,750 19,800 2,575 2,184 2,575
19,800 19,850 2,583 2,191 2,583
19,850 19,900 2,590 2,199 2,590
19,900 19,950 2,598 2,206 2,598
19,950 20,000 2,605 2,214 2,605

20,000
20,000 20,050 2,613 2,221 2,613
20,050 20,100 2,620 2,229 2,620
20,100 20,150 2,628 2,236 2,628
20,150 20,200 2,635 2,244 2,635
20,200 20,250 2,643 2,251 2,643
20,250 20,300 2,650 2,259 2,650
20,300 20,350 2,658 2,266 2,658
20,350 20,400 2,665 2,274 2,665
20,400 20,450 2,673 2,281 2,673
20,450 20,500 2,680 2,289 2,680
20,500 20,550 2,688 2,296 2,688
20,550 20,600 2,695 2,304 2,695
20,600 20,650 2,703 2,311 2,703
20,650 20,700 2,710 2,319 2,710
20,700 20,750 2,718 2,326 2,718
20,750 20,800 2,725 2,334 2,725
20,800 20,850 2,733 2,341 2,733
20,850 20,900 2,740 2,349 2,740
20,900 20,950 2,748 2,356 2,748
20,950 21,000 2,755 2,364 2,755
21,000
21,000 21,050 2,763 2,371 2,763
21,050 21,100 2,770 2,379 2,770
21,100 21,150 2,778 2,386 2,778
21,150 21,200 2,785 2,394 2,785
21,200 21,250 2,793 2,401 2,793
21,250 21,300 2,800 2,409 2,800
21,300 21,350 2,808 2,416 2,808
21,350 21,400 2,815 2,424 2,815
21,400 21,450 2,823 2,431 2,823
21,450 21,500 2,830 2,439 2,830
21,500 21,550 2,838 2,446 2,838
21,550 21,600 2,845 2,454 2,845
21,600 21,650 2,853 2,461 2,853
21,650 21,700 2,860 2,469 2,860
21,700 21,750 2,868 2,476 2,868
21,750 21,800 2,875 2,484 2,875
21,800 21,850 2,883 2,491 2,883
21,850 21,900 2,890 2,499 2,890
21,900 21,950 2,898 2,506 2,898
21,950 22,000 2,905 2,514 2,905
22,000
22,000 22,050 2,913 2,521 2,913
22,050 22,100 2,920 2,529 2,920
22,100 22,150 2,928 2,536 2,928
22,150 22,200 2,935 2,544 2,935
22,200 22,250 2,943 2,551 2,943
22,250 22,300 2,950 2,559 2,950
22,300 22,350 2,958 2,566 2,958
22,350 22,400 2,965 2,574 2,965
22,400 22,450 2,973 2,581 2,973
22,450 22,500 2,980 2,589 2,980
22,500 22,550 2,988 2,596 2,988
22,550 22,600 2,995 2,604 2,995
22,600 22,650 3,003 2,611 3,003
22,650 22,700 3,010 2,619 3,010
22,700 22,750 3,018 2,626 3,018
22,750 22,800 3,025 2,634 3,025
22,800 22,850 3,033 2,641 3,033
22,850 22,900 3,040 2,649 3,040
22,900 22,950 3,048 2,656 3,048
22,950 23,000 3,055 2,664 3,055

(Continued on page 37)
- 36 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 37 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

2007 Tax Table– Continued

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

23,000
23,000 23,050 3,063 2,671 3,063
23,050 23,100 3,070 2,679 3,070
23,100 23,150 3,078 2,686 3,078
23,150 23,200 3,085 2,694 3,085
23,200 23,250 3,093 2,701 3,093
23,250 23,300 3,100 2,709 3,100
23,300 23,350 3,108 2,716 3,108
23,350 23,400 3,115 2,724 3,115
23,400 23,450 3,123 2,731 3,123
23,450 23,500 3,130 2,739 3,130
23,500 23,550 3,138 2,746 3,138
23,550 23,600 3,145 2,754 3,145
23,600 23,650 3,153 2,761 3,153
23,650 23,700 3,160 2,769 3,160
23,700 23,750 3,168 2,776 3,168
23,750 23,800 3,175 2,784 3,175
23,800 23,850 3,183 2,791 3,183
23,850 23,900 3,190 2,799 3,190
23,900 23,950 3,198 2,806 3,198
23,950 24,000 3,205 2,814 3,205
24,000
24,000 24,050 3,213 2,821 3,213
24,050 24,100 3,220 2,829 3,220
24,100 24,150 3,228 2,836 3,228
24,150 24,200 3,235 2,844 3,235
24,200 24,250 3,243 2,851 3,243
24,250 24,300 3,250 2,859 3,250
24,300 24,350 3,258 2,866 3,258
24,350 24,400 3,265 2,874 3,265
24,400 24,450 3,273 2,881 3,273
24,450 24,500 3,280 2,889 3,280
24,500 24,550 3,288 2,896 3,288
24,550 24,600 3,295 2,904 3,295
24,600 24,650 3,303 2,911 3,303
24,650 24,700 3,310 2,919 3,310
24,700 24,750 3,318 2,926 3,318
24,750 24,800 3,325 2,934 3,325
24,800 24,850 3,333 2,941 3,333
24,850 24,900 3,340 2,949 3,340
24,900 24,950 3,348 2,956 3,348
24,950 25,000 3,355 2,964 3,355
25,000
25,000 25,050 3,363 2,971 3,363
25,050 25,100 3,370 2,979 3,370
25,100 25,150 3,378 2,986 3,378
25,150 25,200 3,385 2,994 3,385
25,200 25,250 3,393 3,001 3,393
25,250 25,300 3,400 3,009 3,400
25,300 25,350 3,408 3,016 3,408
25,350 25,400 3,415 3,024 3,415
25,400 25,450 3,423 3,031 3,423
25,450 25,500 3,430 3,039 3,430
25,500 25,550 3,438 3,046 3,438
25,550 25,600 3,445 3,054 3,445
25,600 25,650 3,453 3,061 3,453
25,650 25,700 3,460 3,069 3,460
25,700 25,750 3,468 3,076 3,468
25,750 25,800 3,475 3,084 3,475
25,800 25,850 3,483 3,091 3,483
25,850 25,900 3,490 3,099 3,490
25,900 25,950 3,498 3,106 3,498
25,950 26,000 3,505 3,114 3,505

26,000
26,000 26,050 3,513 3,121 3,513
26,050 26,100 3,520 3,129 3,520
26,100 26,150 3,528 3,136 3,528
26,150 26,200 3,535 3,144 3,535
26,200 26,250 3,543 3,151 3,543
26,250 26,300 3,550 3,159 3,550
26,300 26,350 3,558 3,166 3,558
26,350 26,400 3,565 3,174 3,565
26,400 26,450 3,573 3,181 3,573
26,450 26,500 3,580 3,189 3,580
26,500 26,550 3,588 3,196 3,588
26,550 26,600 3,595 3,204 3,595
26,600 26,650 3,603 3,211 3,603
26,650 26,700 3,610 3,219 3,610
26,700 26,750 3,618 3,226 3,618
26,750 26,800 3,625 3,234 3,625
26,800 26,850 3,633 3,241 3,633
26,850 26,900 3,640 3,249 3,640
26,900 26,950 3,648 3,256 3,648
26,950 27,000 3,655 3,264 3,655
27,000
27,000 27,050 3,663 3,271 3,663
27,050 27,100 3,670 3,279 3,670
27,100 27,150 3,678 3,286 3,678
27,150 27,200 3,685 3,294 3,685
27,200 27,250 3,693 3,301 3,693
27,250 27,300 3,700 3,309 3,700
27,300 27,350 3,708 3,316 3,708
27,350 27,400 3,715 3,324 3,715
27,400 27,450 3,723 3,331 3,723
27,450 27,500 3,730 3,339 3,730
27,500 27,550 3,738 3,346 3,738
27,550 27,600 3,745 3,354 3,745
27,600 27,650 3,753 3,361 3,753
27,650 27,700 3,760 3,369 3,760
27,700 27,750 3,768 3,376 3,768
27,750 27,800 3,775 3,384 3,775
27,800 27,850 3,783 3,391 3,783
27,850 27,900 3,790 3,399 3,790
27,900 27,950 3,798 3,406 3,798
27,950 28,000 3,805 3,414 3,805
28,000
28,000 28,050 3,813 3,421 3,813
28,050 28,100 3,820 3,429 3,820
28,100 28,150 3,828 3,436 3,828
28,150 28,200 3,835 3,444 3,835
28,200 28,250 3,843 3,451 3,843
28,250 28,300 3,850 3,459 3,850
28,300 28,350 3,858 3,466 3,858
28,350 28,400 3,865 3,474 3,865
28,400 28,450 3,873 3,481 3,873
28,450 28,500 3,880 3,489 3,880
28,500 28,550 3,888 3,496 3,888
28,550 28,600 3,895 3,504 3,895
28,600 28,650 3,903 3,511 3,903
28,650 28,700 3,910 3,519 3,910
28,700 28,750 3,918 3,526 3,918
28,750 28,800 3,925 3,534 3,925
28,800 28,850 3,933 3,541 3,933
28,850 28,900 3,940 3,549 3,940
28,900 28,950 3,948 3,556 3,948
28,950 29,000 3,955 3,564 3,955

29,000
29,000 29,050 3,963 3,571 3,963
29,050 29,100 3,970 3,579 3,970
29,100 29,150 3,978 3,586 3,978
29,150 29,200 3,985 3,594 3,985
29,200 29,250 3,993 3,601 3,993
29,250 29,300 4,000 3,609 4,000
29,300 29,350 4,008 3,616 4,008
29,350 29,400 4,015 3,624 4,015
29,400 29,450 4,023 3,631 4,023
29,450 29,500 4,030 3,639 4,030
29,500 29,550 4,038 3,646 4,038
29,550 29,600 4,045 3,654 4,045
29,600 29,650 4,053 3,661 4,053
29,650 29,700 4,060 3,669 4,060
29,700 29,750 4,068 3,676 4,068
29,750 29,800 4,075 3,684 4,075
29,800 29,850 4,083 3,691 4,083
29,850 29,900 4,090 3,699 4,090
29,900 29,950 4,098 3,706 4,098
29,950 30,000 4,105 3,714 4,105
30,000
30,000 30,050 4,113 3,721 4,113
30,050 30,100 4,120 3,729 4,120
30,100 30,150 4,128 3,736 4,128
30,150 30,200 4,135 3,744 4,135
30,200 30,250 4,143 3,751 4,143
30,250 30,300 4,150 3,759 4,150
30,300 30,350 4,158 3,766 4,158
30,350 30,400 4,165 3,774 4,165
30,400 30,450 4,173 3,781 4,173
30,450 30,500 4,180 3,789 4,180
30,500 30,550 4,188 3,796 4,188
30,550 30,600 4,195 3,804 4,195
30,600 30,650 4,203 3,811 4,203
30,650 30,700 4,210 3,819 4,210
30,700 30,750 4,218 3,826 4,218
30,750 30,800 4,225 3,834 4,225
30,800 30,850 4,233 3,841 4,233
30,850 30,900 4,240 3,849 4,240
30,900 30,950 4,248 3,856 4,248
30,950 31,000 4,255 3,864 4,255
31,000
31,000 31,050 4,263 3,871 4,263
31,050 31,100 4,270 3,879 4,270
31,100 31,150 4,278 3,886 4,278
31,150 31,200 4,285 3,894 4,285
31,200 31,250 4,293 3,901 4,293
31,250 31,300 4,300 3,909 4,300
31,300 31,350 4,308 3,916 4,308
31,350 31,400 4,315 3,924 4,315
31,400 31,450 4,323 3,931 4,323
31,450 31,500 4,330 3,939 4,330
31,500 31,550 4,338 3,946 4,338
31,550 31,600 4,345 3,954 4,345
31,600 31,650 4,353 3,961 4,353
31,650 31,700 4,360 3,969 4,360
31,700 31,750 4,368 3,976 4,368
31,750 31,800 4,375 3,984 4,375
31,800 31,850 4,383 3,991 4,383
31,850 31,900 4,393 3,999 4,393
31,900 31,950 4,405 4,006 4,405
31,950 32,000 4,418 4,014 4,418

If Form If Form If Form

(Continued on page 38)

Instructions for Form 1040NR - 37 -Page 38 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

32,000
32,000 32,050 4,430
32,050 32,100 4,443
32,100 32,150 4,455
32,150 32,200 4,468
32,200 32,250 4,480
32,250 32,300 4,493
32,300 32,350 4,505
32,350 32,400 4,518
32,400 32,450 4,530
32,450 32,500 4,543
32,500 32,550 4,555
32,550 32,600 4,568
32,600 32,650 4,580
32,650 32,700 4,593
32,700 32,750 4,605
32,750 32,800 4,618
32,800 32,850 4,630
32,850 32,900 4,643
32,900 32,950 4,655
32,950 33,000 4,668
33,000
33,000 33,050 4,680
33,050 33,100 4,693
33,100 33,150 4,705
33,150 33,200 4,718
33,200 33,250 4,730
33,250 33,300 4,743
33,300 33,350 4,755
33,350 33,400 4,768
33,400 33,450 4,780
33,450 33,500 4,793
33,500 33,550 4,805
33,550 33,600 4,818
33,600 33,650 4,830
33,650 33,700 4,843
33,700 33,750 4,855
33,750 33,800 4,868
33,800 33,850 4,880
33,850 33,900 4,893
33,900 33,950 4,905
33,950 34,000 4,918
34,000
34,000 34,050 4,930
34,050 34,100 4,943
34,100 34,150 4,955
34,150 34,200 4,968
34,200 34,250 4,980
34,250 34,300 4,993
34,300 34,350 5,005
34,350 34,400 5,018
34,400 34,450 5,030
34,450 34,500 5,043
34,500 34,550 5,055
34,550 34,600 5,068
34,600 34,650 5,080
34,650 34,700 5,093
34,700 34,750 5,105
34,750 34,800 5,118
34,800 34,850 5,130
34,850 34,900 5,143
34,900 34,950 5,155
34,950 35,000 5,168

4,021 4,430
4,029 4,443
4,036 4,455
4,044 4,468
4,051 4,480
4,059 4,493
4,066 4,505
4,074 4,518
4,081 4,530
4,089 4,543
4,096 4,555
4,104 4,568
4,111 4,580
4,119 4,593
4,126 4,605
4,134 4,618
4,141 4,630
4,149 4,643
4,156 4,655
4,164 4,668
4,171 4,680
4,179 4,693
4,186 4,705
4,194 4,718
4,201 4,730
4,209 4,743
4,216 4,755
4,224 4,768
4,231 4,780
4,239 4,793
4,246 4,805
4,254 4,818
4,261 4,830
4,269 4,843
4,276 4,855
4,284 4,868
4,291 4,880
,299 4,893
4,306 4,905
4,314 4,918
4,321 4,930
4,329 4,943
4,336 4,955
4,344 4,968
4,351 4,980
4,359 4,993
4,366 5,005
4,374 5,018
4,381 5,030
4,389 5,043
4,396 5,055
4,404 5,068
4,411 5,080
4,419 5,093
4,426 5,105
4,434 5,118
4,441 5,130
4,449 5,143
4,456 5,155
4,464 5,168

35,000
35,000 35,050 5,180 4,471 5,180
35,050 35,100 5,193 4,479 5,193
35,100 35,150 5,205 4,486 5,205
35,150 35,200 5,218 4,494 5,218
35,200 35,250 5,230 4,501 5,230
35,250 35,300 5,243 4,509 5,243
35,300 35,350 5,255 4,516 5,255
35,350 35,400 5,268 4,524 5,268
35,400 35,450 5,280 4,531 5,280
35,450 35,500 5,293 4,539 5,293
35,500 35,550 5,305 4,546 5,305
35,550 35,600 5,318 4,554 5,318
35,600 35,650 5,330 4,561 5,330
35,650 35,700 5,343 4,569 5,343
35,700 35,750 5,355 4,576 5,355
35,750 35,800 5,368 4,584 5,368
35,800 35,850 5,380 4,591 5,380
35,850 35,900 5,393 4,599 5,393
35,900 35,950 5,405 4,606 5,405
35,950 36,000 5,418 4,614 5,418
36,000
36,000 36,050 5,430 4,621 5,430
36,050 36,100 5,443 4,629 5,443
36,100 36,150 5,455 4,636 5,455
36,150 36,200 5,468 4,644 5,468
36,200 36,250 5,480 4,651 5,480
36,250 36,300 5,493 4,659 5,493
36,300 36,350 5,505 4,666 5,505
36,350 36,400 5,518 4,674 5,518
36,400 36,450 5,530 4,681 5,530
36,450 36,500 5,543 4,689 5,543
36,500 36,550 5,555 4,696 5,555
36,550 36,600 5,568 4,704 5,568
36,600 36,650 5,580 4,711 5,580
36,650 36,700 5,593 4,719 5,593
36,700 36,750 5,605 4,726 5,605
36,750 36,800 5,618 4,734 5,618
36,800 36,850 5,630 4,741 5,630
36,850 36,900 5,643 4,749 5,643
36,900 36,950 5,655 4,756 5,655
36,950 37,000 5,668 4,764 5,668
37,000
37,000 37,050 5,680 4,771 5,680
37,050 37,100 5,693 4,779 5,693
37,100 37,150 5,705 4,786 5,705
37,150 37,200 5,718 4,794 5,718
37,200 37,250 5,730 4,801 5,730
37,250 37,300 5,743 4,809 5,743
37,300 37,350 5,755 4,816 5,755
37,350 37,400 5,768 4,824 5,768
37,400 37,450 5,780 4,831 5,780
37,450 37,500 5,793 4,839 5,793
37,500 37,550 5,805 4,846 5,805
37,550 37,600 5,818 4,854 5,818
37,600 37,650 5,830 4,861 5,830
37,650 37,700 5,843 4,869 5,843
37,700 37,750 5,855 4,876 5,855
37,750 37,800 5,868 4,884 5,868
37,800 37,850 5,880 4,891 5,880
37,850 37,900 5,893 4,899 5,893
37,900 37,950 5,905 4,906 5,905
37,950 38,000 5,918 4,914 5,918

38,000
38,000 38,050 5,930 4,921 5,930
38,050 38,100 5,943 4,929 5,943
38,100 38,150 5,955 4,936 5,955
38,150 38,200 5,968 4,944 5,968
38,200 38,250 5,980 4,951 5,980
38,250 38,300 5,993 4,959 5,993
38,300 38,350 6,005 4,966 6,005
38,350 38,400 6,018 4,974 6,018
38,400 38,450 6,030 4,981 6,030
38,450 38,500 6,043 4,989 6,043
38,500 38,550 6,055 4,996 6,055
38,550 38,600 6,068 5,004 6,068
38,600 38,650 6,080 5,011 6,080
38,650 38,700 6,093 5,019 6,093
38,700 38,750 6,105 5,026 6,105
38,750 38,800 6,118 5,034 6,118
38,800 38,850 6,130 5,041 6,130
38,850 38,900 6,143 5,049 6,143
38,900 38,950 6,155 5,056 6,155
38,950 39,000 6,168 5,064 6,168
39,000
39,000 39,050 6,180 5,071 6,180
39,050 39,100 6,193 5,079 6,193
39,100 39,150 6,205 5,086 6,205
39,150 39,200 6,218 5,094 6,218
39,200 39,250 6,230 5,101 6,230
39,250 39,300 6,243 5,109 6,243
39,300 39,350 6,255 5,116 6,255
39,350 39,400 6,268 5,124 6,268
39,400 39,450 6,280 5,131 6,280
39,450 39,500 6,293 5,139 6,293
39,500 39,550 6,305 5,146 6,305
39,550 39,600 6,318 5,154 6,318
39,600 39,650 6,330 5,161 6,330
39,650 39,700 6,343 5,169 6,343
39,700 39,750 6,355 5,176 6,355
39,750 39,800 6,368 5,184 6,368
39,800 39,850 6,380 5,191 6,380
39,850 39,900 6,393 5,199 6,393
39,900 39,950 6,405 5,206 6,405
39,950 40,000 6,418 5,214 6,418
40,000
40,000 40,050 6,430 5,221 6,430
40,050 40,100 6,443 5,229 6,443
40,100 40,150 6,455 5,236 6,455
40,150 40,200 6,468 5,244 6,468
40,200 40,250 6,480 5,251 6,480
40,250 40,300 6,493 5,259 6,493
40,300 40,350 6,505 5,266 6,505
40,350 40,400 6,518 5,274 6,518
40,400 40,450 6,530 5,281 6,530
40,450 40,500 6,543 5,289 6,543
40,500 40,550 6,555 5,296 6,555
40,550 40,600 6,568 5,304 6,568
40,600 40,650 6,580 5,311 6,580
40,650 40,700 6,593 5,319 6,593
40,700 40,750 6,605 5,326 6,605
40,750 40,800 6,618 5,334 6,618
40,800 40,850 6,630 5,341 6,630
40,850 40,900 6,643 5,349 6,643
40,900 40,950 6,655 5,356 6,655
40,950 41,000 6,668 5,364 6,668

(Continued on page 39)
Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 39 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

2007 Tax Table– Continued

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

41,000
41,000 41,050 6,680 5,371 6,680
41,050 41,100 6,693 5,379 6,693
41,100 41,150 6,705 5,386 6,705
41,150 41,200 6,718 5,394 6,718
41,200 41,250 6,730 5,401 6,730
41,250 41,300 6,743 5,409 6,743
41,300 41,350 6,755 5,416 6,755
41,350 41,400 6,768 5,424 6,768
41,400 41,450 6,780 5,431 6,780
41,450 41,500 6,793 5,439 6,793
41,500 41,550 6,805 5,446 6,805
41,550 41,600 6,818 5,454 6,818
41,600 41,650 6,830 5,461 6,830
41,650 41,700 6,843 5,469 6,843
41,700 41,750 6,855 5,476 6,855
41,750 41,800 6,868 5,484 6,868
41,800 41,850 6,880 5,491 6,880
41,850 41,900 6,893 5,499 6,893
41,900 41,950 6,905 5,506 6,905
41,950 42,000 6,918 5,514 6,918
42,000
42,000 42,050 6,930 5,521 6,930
42,050 42,100 6,943 5,529 6,943
42,100 42,150 6,955 5,536 6,955
42,150 42,200 6,968 5,544 6,968
42,200 42,250 6,980 5,551 6,980
42,250 42,300 6,993 5,559 6,993
42,300 42,350 7,005 5,566 7,005
42,350 42,400 7,018 5,574 7,018
42,400 42,450 7,030 5,581 7,030
42,450 42,500 7,043 5,589 7,043
42,500 42,550 7,055 5,596 7,055
42,550 42,600 7,068 5,604 7,068
42,600 42,650 7,080 5,611 7,080
42,650 42,700 7,093 5,619 7,093
42,700 42,750 7,105 5,626 7,105
42,750 42,800 7,118 5,634 7,118
42,800 42,850 7,130 5,641 7,130
42,850 42,900 7,143 5,649 7,143
42,900 42,950 7,155 5,656 7,155
42,950 43,000 7,168 5,664 7,168
43,000
43,000 43,050 7,180 5,671 7,180
43,050 43,100 7,193 5,679 7,193
43,100 43,150 7,205 5,686 7,205
43,150 43,200 7,218 5,694 7,218
43,200 43,250 7,230 5,701 7,230
43,250 43,300 7,243 5,709 7,243
43,300 43,350 7,255 5,716 7,255
43,350 43,400 7,268 5,724 7,268
43,400 43,450 7,280 5,731 7,280
43,450 43,500 7,293 5,739 7,293
43,500 43,550 7,305 5,746 7,305
43,550 43,600 7,318 5,754 7,318
43,600 43,650 7,330 5,761 7,330
43,650 43,700 7,343 5,769 7,343
43,700 43,750 7,355 5,776 7,355
43,750 43,800 7,368 5,784 7,368
43,800 43,850 7,380 5,791 7,380
43,850 43,900 7,393 5,799 7,393
43,900 43,950 7,405 5,806 7,405
43,950 44,000 7,418 5,814 7,418

44,000
44,000 44,050 7,430 5,821 7,430
44,050 44,100 7,443 5,829 7,443
44,100 44,150 7,455 5,836 7,455
44,150 44,200 7,468 5,844 7,468
44,200 44,250 7,480 5,851 7,480
44,250 44,300 7,493 5,859 7,493
44,300 44,350 7,505 5,866 7,505
44,350 44,400 7,518 5,874 7,518
44,400 44,450 7,530 5,881 7,530
44,450 44,500 7,543 5,889 7,543
44,500 44,550 7,555 5,896 7,555
44,550 44,600 7,568 5,904 7,568
44,600 44,650 7,580 5,911 7,580
44,650 44,700 7,593 5,919 7,593
44,700 44,750 7,605 5,926 7,605
44,750 44,800 7,618 5,934 7,618
44,800 44,850 7,630 5,941 7,630
44,850 44,900 7,643 5,949 7,643
44,900 44,950 7,655 5,956 7,655
44,950 45,000 7,668 5,964 7,668
45,000
45,000 45,050 7,680 5,971 7,680
45,050 45,100 7,693 5,979 7,693
45,100 45,150 7,705 5,986 7,705
45,150 45,200 7,718 5,994 7,718
45,200 45,250 7,730 6,001 7,730
45,250 45,300 7,743 6,009 7,743
45,300 45,350 7,755 6,016 7,755
45,350 45,400 7,768 6,024 7,768
45,400 45,450 7,780 6,031 7,780
45,450 45,500 7,793 6,039 7,793
45,500 45,550 7,805 6,046 7,805
45,550 45,600 7,818 6,054 7,818
45,600 45,650 7,830 6,061 7,830
45,650 45,700 7,843 6,069 7,843
45,700 45,750 7,855 6,076 7,855
45,750 45,800 7,868 6,084 7,868
45,800 45,850 7,880 6,091 7,880
45,850 45,900 7,893 6,099 7,893
45,900 45,950 7,905 6,106 7,905
45,950 46,000 7,918 6,114 7,918
46,000
46,000 46,050 7,930 6,121 7,930
46,050 46,100 7,943 6,129 7,943
46,100 46,150 7,955 6,136 7,955
46,150 46,200 7,968 6,144 7,968
46,200 46,250 7,980 6,151 7,980
46,250 46,300 7,993 6,159 7,993
46,300 46,350 8,005 6,166 8,005
46,350 46,400 8,018 6,174 8,018
46,400 46,450 8,030 6,181 8,030
46,450 46,500 8,043 6,189 8,043
46,500 46,550 8,055 6,196 8,055
46,550 46,600 8,068 6,204 8,068
46,600 46,650 8,080 6,211 8,080
46,650 46,700 8,093 6,219 8,093
46,700 46,750 8,105 6,226 8,105
46,750 46,800 8,118 6,234 8,118
46,800 46,850 8,130 6,241 8,130
46,850 46,900 8,143 6,249 8,143
46,900 46,950 8,155 6,256 8,155
46,950 47,000 8,168 6,264 8,168

47,000
47,000 47,050 8,180 6,271 8,180
47,050 47,100 8,193 6,279 8,193
47,100 47,150 8,205 6,286 8,205
47,150 47,200 8,218 6,294 8,218
47,200 47,250 8,230 6,301 8,230
47,250 47,300 8,243 6,309 8,243
47,300 47,350 8,255 6,316 8,255
47,350 47,400 8,268 6,324 8,268
47,400 47,450 8,280 6,331 8,280
47,450 47,500 8,293 6,339 8,293
47,500 47,550 8,305 6,346 8,305
47,550 47,600 8,318 6,354 8,318
47,600 47,650 8,330 6,361 8,330
47,650 47,700 8,343 6,369 8,343
47,700 47,750 8,355 6,376 8,355
47,750 47,800 8,368 6,384 8,368
47,800 47,850 8,380 6,391 8,380
47,850 47,900 8,393 6,399 8,393
47,900 47,950 8,405 6,406 8,405
47,950 48,000 8,418 6,414 8,418
48,000
48,000 48,050 8,430 6,421 8,430
48,050 48,100 8,443 6,429 8,443
48,100 48,150 8,455 6,436 8,455
48,150 48,200 8,468 6,444 8,468
48,200 48,250 8,480 6,451 8,480
48,250 48,300 8,493 6,459 8,493
48,300 48,350 8,505 6,466 8,505
48,350 48,400 8,518 6,474 8,518
48,400 48,450 8,530 6,481 8,530
48,450 48,500 8,543 6,489 8,543
48,500 48,550 8,555 6,496 8,555
48,550 48,600 8,568 6,504 8,568
48,600 48,650 8,580 6,511 8,580
48,650 48,700 8,593 6,519 8,593
48,700 48,750 8,605 6,526 8,605
48,750 48,800 8,618 6,534 8,618
48,800 48,850 8,630 6,541 8,630
48,850 48,900 8,643 6,549 8,643
48,900 48,950 8,655 6,556 8,655
48,950 49,000 8,668 6,564 8,668
49,000
49,000 49,050 8,680 6,571 8,680
49,050 49,100 8,693 6,579 8,693
49,100 49,150 8,705 6,586 8,705
49,150 49,200 8,718 6,594 8,718
49,200 49,250 8,730 6,601 8,730
49,250 49,300 8,743 6,609 8,743
49,300 49,350 8,755 6,616 8,755
49,350 49,400 8,768 6,624 8,768
49,400 49,450 8,780 6,631 8,780
49,450 49,500 8,793 6,639 8,793
49,500 49,550 8,805 6,646 8,805
49,550 49,600 8,818 6,654 8,818
49,600 49,650 8,830 6,661 8,830
49,650 49,700 8,843 6,669 8,843
49,700 49,750 8,855 6,676 8,855
49,750 49,800 8,868 6,684 8,868
49,800 49,850 8,880 6,691 8,880
49,850 49,900 8,893 6,699 8,893
49,900 49,950 8,905 6,706 8,905
49,950 50,000 8,918 6,714 8,918

If Form If Form If Form

(Continued on page 40)

Instructions for Form 1040NR - 39 -Page 40 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

50,000
50,000 50,050 8,930 6,721 8,930
50,050 50,100 8,943 6,729 8,943
50,100 50,150 8,955 6,736 8,955
50,150 50,200 8,968 6,744 8,968
50,200 50,250 8,980 6,751 8,980
50,250 50,300 8,993 6,759 8,993
50,300 50,350 9,005 6,766 9,005
50,350 50,400 9,018 6,774 9,018
50,400 50,450 9,030 6,781 9,030
50,450 50,500 9,043 6,789 9,043
50,500 50,550 9,055 6,796 9,055
50,550 50,600 9,068 6,804 9,068
50,600 50,650 9,080 6,811 9,080
50,650 50,700 9,093 6,819 9,093
50,700 50,750 9,105 6,826 9,105
50,750 50,800 9,118 6,834 9,118
50,800 50,850 9,130 6,841 9,130
50,850 50,900 9,143 6,849 9,143
50,900 50,950 9,155 6,856 9,155
50,950 51,000 9,168 6,864 9,168
51,000
51,000 51,050 9,180 6,871 9,180
51,050 51,100 9,193 6,879 9,193
51,100 51,150 9,205 6,886 9,205
51,150 51,200 9,218 6,894 9,218
51,200 51,250 9,230 6,901 9,230
51,250 51,300 9,243 6,909 9,243
51,300 51,350 9,255 6,916 9,255
51,350 51,400 9,268 6,924 9,268
51,400 51,450 9,280 6,931 9,280
51,450 51,500 9,293 6,939 9,293
51,500 51,550 9,305 6,946 9,305
51,550 51,600 9,318 6,954 9,318
51,600 51,650 9,330 6,961 9,330
51,650 51,700 9,343 6,969 9,343
51,700 51,750 9,355 6,976 9,355
51,750 51,800 9,368 6,984 9,368
51,800 51,850 9,380 6,991 9,380
51,850 51,900 9,393 6,999 9,393
51,900 51,950 9,405 7,006 9,405
51,950 52,000 9,418 7,014 9,418
52,000
52,000 52,050 9,430 7,021 9,430
52,050 52,100 9,443 7,029 9,443
52,100 52,150 9,455 7,036 9,455
52,150 52,200 9,468 7,044 9,468
52,200 52,250 9,480 7,051 9,480
52,250 52,300 9,493 7,059 9,493
52,300 52,350 9,505 7,066 9,505
52,350 52,400 9,518 7,074 9,518
52,400 52,450 9,530 7,081 9,530
52,450 52,500 9,543 7,089 9,543
52,500 52,550 9,555 7,096 9,555
52,550 52,600 9,568 7,104 9,568
52,600 52,650 9,580 7,111 9,580
52,650 52,700 9,593 7,119 9,593
52,700 52,750 9,605 7,126 9,605
52,750 52,800 9,618 7,134 9,618
52,800 52,850 9,630 7,141 9,630
52,850 52,900 9,643 7,149 9,643
52,900 52,950 9,655 7,156 9,655
52,950 53,000 9,668 7,164 9,668

53,000
53,000 53,050 9,680 7,171 9,680
53,050 53,100 9,693 7,179 9,693
53,100 53,150 9,705 7,186 9,705
53,150 53,200 9,718 7,194 9,718
53,200 53,250 9,730 7,201 9,730
53,250 53,300 9,743 7,209 9,743
53,300 53,350 9,755 7,216 9,755
53,350 53,400 9,768 7,224 9,768
53,400 53,450 9,780 7,231 9,780
53,450 53,500 9,793 7,239 9,793
53,500 53,550 9,805 7,246 9,805
53,550 53,600 9,818 7,254 9,818
53,600 53,650 9,830 7,261 9,830
53,650 53,700 9,843 7,269 9,843
53,700 53,750 9,855 7,276 9,855
53,750 53,800 9,868 7,284 9,868
53,800 53,850 9,880 7,291 9,880
53,850 53,900 9,893 7,299 9,893
53,900 53,950 9,905 7,306 9,905
53,950 54,000 9,918 7,314 9,918
54,000
54,000 54,050 9,930 7,321 9,930
54,050 54,100 9,943 7,329 9,943
54,100 54,150 9,955 7,336 9,955
54,150 54,200 9,968 7,344 9,968
54,200 54,250 9,980 7,351 9,980
54,250 54,300 9,993 7,359 9,993
54,300 54,350 10,005 7,366 10,005
54,350 54,400 10,018 7,374 10,018
54,400 54,450 10,030 7,381 10,030
54,450 54,500 10,043 7,389 10,043
54,500 54,550 10,055 7,396 10,055
54,550 54,600 10,068 7,404 10,068
54,600 54,650 10,080 7,411 10,080
54,650 54,700 10,093 7,419 10,093
54,700 54,750 10,105 7,426 10,105
54,750 54,800 10,118 7,434 10,118
54,800 54,850 10,130 7,441 10,130
54,850 54,900 10,143 7,449 10,143
54,900 54,950 10,155 7,456 10,155
54,950 55,000 10,168 7,464 10,168
55,000
55,000 55,050 10,180 7,471 10,180
55,050 55,100 10,193 7,479 10,193
55,100 55,150 10,205 7,486 10,205
55,150 55,200 10,218 7,494 10,218
55,200 55,250 10,230 7,501 10,230
55,250 55,300 10,243 7,509 10,243
55,300 55,350 10,255 7,516 10,255
55,350 55,400 10,268 7,524 10,268
55,400 55,450 10,280 7,531 10,280
55,450 55,500 10,293 7,539 10,293
55,500 55,550 10,305 7,546 10,305
55,550 55,600 10,318 7,554 10,318
55,600 55,650 10,330 7,561 10,330
55,650 55,700 10,343 7,569 10,343
55,700 55,750 10,355 7,576 10,355
55,750 55,800 10,368 7,584 10,368
55,800 55,850 10,380 7,591 10,380
55,850 55,900 10,393 7,599 10,393
55,900 55,950 10,405 7,606 10,405
55,950 56,000 10,418 7,614 10,418

56,000
56,000 56,050 10,430 7,621 10,430
56,050 56,100 10,443 7,629 10,443
56,100 56,150 10,455 7,636 10,455
56,150 56,200 10,468 7,644 10,468
56,200 56,250 10,480 7,651 10,480
56,250 56,300 10,493 7,659 10,493
56,300 56,350 10,505 7,666 10,505
56,350 56,400 10,518 7,674 10,518
56,400 56,450 10,530 7,681 10,530
56,450 56,500 10,543 7,689 10,543
56,500 56,550 10,555 7,696 10,555
56,550 56,600 10,568 7,704 10,568
56,600 56,650 10,580 7,711 10,580
56,650 56,700 10,593 7,719 10,593
56,700 56,750 10,605 7,726 10,605
56,750 56,800 10,618 7,734 10,618
56,800 56,850 10,630 7,741 10,630
56,850 56,900 10,643 7,749 10,643
56,900 56,950 10,655 7,756 10,655
56,950 57,000 10,668 7,764 10,668
57,000
57,000 57,050 10,680 7,771 10,680
57,050 57,100 10,693 7,779 10,693
57,100 57,150 10,705 7,786 10,705
57,150 57,200 10,718 7,794 10,718
57,200 57,250 10,730 7,801 10,730
57,250 57,300 10,743 7,809 10,743
57,300 57,350 10,755 7,816 10,755
57,350 57,400 10,768 7,824 10,768
57,400 57,450 10,780 7,831 10,780
57,450 57,500 10,793 7,839 10,793
57,500 57,550 10,805 7,846 10,805
57,550 57,600 10,818 7,854 10,818
57,600 57,650 10,830 7,861 10,830
57,650 57,700 10,843 7,869 10,843
57,700 57,750 10,855 7,876 10,855
57,750 57,800 10,868 7,884 10,868
57,800 57,850 10,880 7,891 10,880
57,850 57,900 10,893 7,899 10,893
57,900 57,950 10,905 7,906 10,905
57,950 58,000 10,918 7,914 10,918
58,000
58,000 58,050 10,930 7,921 10,930
58,050 58,100 10,943 7,929 10,943
58,100 58,150 10,955 7,936 10,955
58,150 58,200 10,968 7,944 10,968
58,200 58,250 10,980 7,951 10,980
58,250 58,300 10,993 7,959 10,993
58,300 58,350 11,005 7,966 11,005
58,350 58,400 11,018 7,974 11,018
58,400 58,450 11,030 7,981 11,030
58,450 58,500 11,043 7,989 11,043
58,500 58,550 11,055 7,996 11,055
58,550 58,600 11,068 8,004 11,068
58,600 58,650 11,080 8,011 11,080
58,650 58,700 11,093 8,019 11,093
58,700 58,750 11,105 8,026 11,105
58,750 58,800 11,118 8,034 11,118
58,800 58,850 11,130 8,041 11,130
58,850 58,900 11,143 8,049 11,143
58,900 58,950 11,155 8,056 11,155
58,950 59,000 11,168 8,064 11,168

(Continued on page 41)
- 40 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 41 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

2007 Tax Table– Continued

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

59,000
59,000 59,050 11,180 8,071 11,180
59,050 59,100 11,193 8,079 11,193
59,100 59,150 11,205 8,086 11,205
59,150 59,200 11,218 8,094 11,218
59,200 59,250 11,230 8,101 11,230
59,250 59,300 11,243 8,109 11,243
59,300 59,350 11,255 8,116 11,255
59,350 59,400 11,268 8,124 11,268
59,400 59,450 11,280 8,131 11,280
59,450 59,500 11,293 8,139 11,293
59,500 59,550 11,305 8,146 11,305
59,550 59,600 11,318 8,154 11,318
59,600 59,650 11,330 8,161 11,330
59,650 59,700 11,343 8,169 11,343
59,700 59,750 11,355 8,176 11,355
59,750 59,800 11,368 8,184 11,368
59,800 59,850 11,380 8,191 11,380
59,850 59,900 11,393 8,199 11,393
59,900 59,950 11,405 8,206 11,405
59,950 60,000 11,418 8,214 11,418
60,000
60,000 60,050 11,430 8,221 11,430
60,050 60,100 11,443 8,229 11,443
60,100 60,150 11,455 8,236 11,455
60,150 60,200 11,468 8,244 11,468
60,200 60,250 11,480 8,251 11,480
60,250 60,300 11,493 8,259 11,493
60,300 60,350 11,505 8,266 11,505
60,350 60,400 11,518 8,274 11,518
60,400 60,450 11,530 8,281 11,530
60,450 60,500 11,543 8,289 11,543
60,500 60,550 11,555 8,296 11,555
60,550 60,600 11,568 8,304 11,568
60,600 60,650 11,580 8,311 11,580
60,650 60,700 11,593 8,319 11,593
60,700 60,750 11,605 8,326 11,605
60,750 60,800 11,618 8,334 11,618
60,800 60,850 11,630 8,341 11,630
60,850 60,900 11,643 8,349 11,643
60,900 60,950 11,655 8,356 11,655
60,950 61,000 11,668 8,364 11,668
61,000
61,000 61,050 11,680 8,371 11,680
61,050 61,100 11,693 8,379 11,693
61,100 61,150 11,705 8,386 11,705
61,150 61,200 11,718 8,394 11,718
61,200 61,250 11,730 8,401 11,730
61,250 61,300 11,743 8,409 11,743
61,300 61,350 11,755 8,416 11,755
61,350 61,400 11,768 8,424 11,768
61,400 61,450 11,780 8,431 11,780
61,450 61,500 11,793 8,439 11,793
61,500 61,550 11,805 8,446 11,805
61,550 61,600 11,818 8,454 11,818
61,600 61,650 11,830 8,461 11,830
61,650 61,700 11,843 8,469 11,843
61,700 61,750 11,855 8,476 11,855
61,750 61,800 11,868 8,484 11,868
61,800 61,850 11,880 8,491 11,880
61,850 61,900 11,893 8,499 11,893
61,900 61,950 11,905 8,506 11,905
61,950 62,000 11,918 8,514 11,918

62,000
62,000 62,050 11,930 8,521 11,930
62,050 62,100 11,943 8,529 11,943
62,100 62,150 11,955 8,536 11,955
62,150 62,200 11,968 8,544 11,968
62,200 62,250 11,980 8,551 11,980
62,250 62,300 11,993 8,559 11,993
62,300 62,350 12,005 8,566 12,005
62,350 62,400 12,018 8,574 12,018
62,400 62,450 12,030 8,581 12,030
62,450 62,500 12,043 8,589 12,043
62,500 62,550 12,055 8,596 12,055
62,550 62,600 12,068 8,604 12,068
62,600 62,650 12,080 8,611 12,080
62,650 62,700 12,093 8,619 12,093
62,700 62,750 12,105 8,626 12,105
62,750 62,800 12,118 8,634 12,118
62,800 62,850 12,130 8,641 12,130
62,850 62,900 12,143 8,649 12,143
62,900 62,950 12,155 8,656 12,155
62,950 63,000 12,168 8,664 12,168
63,000
63,000 63,050 12,180 8,671 12,180
63,050 63,100 12,193 8,679 12,193
63,100 63,150 12,205 8,686 12,205
63,150 63,200 12,218 8,694 12,218
63,200 63,250 12,230 8,701 12,230
63,250 63,300 12,243 8,709 12,243
63,300 63,350 12,255 8,716 12,255
63,350 63,400 12,268 8,724 12,268
63,400 63,450 12,280 8,731 12,280
63,450 63,500 12,293 8,739 12,293
63,500 63,550 12,305 8,746 12,305
63,550 63,600 12,318 8,754 12,318
63,600 63,650 12,330 8,761 12,330
63,650 63,700 12,343 8,769 12,343
63,700 63,750 12,355 8,779 12,355
63,750 63,800 12,368 8,791 12,368
63,800 63,850 12,380 8,804 12,380
63,850 63,900 12,393 8,816 12,393
63,900 63,950 12,405 8,829 12,405
63,950 64,000 12,418 8,841 12,418
64,000
64,000 64,050 12,430 8,854 12,430
64,050 64,100 12,443 8,866 12,443
64,100 64,150 12,455 8,879 12,455
64,150 64,200 12,468 8,891 12,468
64,200 64,250 12,480 8,904 12,480
64,250 64,300 12,493 8,916 12,493
64,300 64,350 12,505 8,929 12,507
64,350 64,400 12,518 8,941 12,521
64,400 64,450 12,530 8,954 12,535
64,450 64,500 12,543 8,966 12,549
64,500 64,550 12,555 8,979 12,563
64,550 64,600 12,568 8,991 12,577
64,600 64,650 12,580 9,004 12,591
64,650 64,700 12,593 9,016 12,605
64,700 64,750 12,605 9,029 12,619
64,750 64,800 12,618 9,041 12,633
64,800 64,850 12,630 9,054 12,647
64,850 64,900 12,643 9,066 12,661
64,900 64,950 12,655 9,079 12,675
64,950 65,000 12,668 9,091 12,689

65,000
65,000 65,050 12,680 9,104 12,703
65,050 65,100 12,693 9,116 12,717
65,100 65,150 12,705 9,129 12,731
65,150 65,200 12,718 9,141 12,745
65,200 65,250 12,730 9,154 12,759
65,250 65,300 12,743 9,166 12,773
65,300 65,350 12,755 9,179 12,787
65,350 65,400 12,768 9,191 12,801
65,400 65,450 12,780 9,204 12,815
65,450 65,500 12,793 9,216 12,829
65,500 65,550 12,805 9,229 12,843
65,550 65,600 12,818 9,241 12,857
65,600 65,650 12,830 9,254 12,871
65,650 65,700 12,843 9,266 12,885
65,700 65,750 12,855 9,279 12,899
65,750 65,800 12,868 9,291 12,913
65,800 65,850 12,880 9,304 12,927
65,850 65,900 12,893 9,316 12,941
65,900 65,950 12,905 9,329 12,955
65,950 66,000 12,918 9,341 12,969
66,000
66,000 66,050 12,930 9,354 12,983
66,050 66,100 12,943 9,366 12,997
66,100 66,150 12,955 9,379 13,011
66,150 66,200 12,968 9,391 13,025
66,200 66,250 12,980 9,404 13,039
66,250 66,300 12,993 9,416 13,053
66,300 66,350 13,005 9,429 13,067
66,350 66,400 13,018 9,441 13,081
66,400 66,450 13,030 9,454 13,095
66,450 66,500 13,043 9,466 13,109
66,500 66,550 13,055 9,479 13,123
66,550 66,600 13,068 9,491 13,137
66,600 66,650 13,080 9,504 13,151
66,650 66,700 13,093 9,516 13,165
66,700 66,750 13,105 9,529 13,179
66,750 66,800 13,118 9,541 13,193
66,800 66,850 13,130 9,554 13,207
66,850 66,900 13,143 9,566 13,221
66,900 66,950 13,155 9,579 13,235
66,950 67,000 13,168 9,591 13,249
67,000
67,000 67,050 13,180 9,604 13,263
67,050 67,100 13,193 9,616 13,277
67,100 67,150 13,205 9,629 13,291
67,150 67,200 13,218 9,641 13,305
67,200 67,250 13,230 9,654 13,319
67,250 67,300 13,243 9,666 13,333
67,300 67,350 13,255 9,679 13,347
67,350 67,400 13,268 9,691 13,361
67,400 67,450 13,280 9,704 13,375
67,450 67,500 13,293 9,716 13,389
67,500 67,550 13,305 9,729 13,403
67,550 67,600 13,318 9,741 13,417
67,600 67,650 13,330 9,754 13,431
67,650 67,700 13,343 9,766 13,445
67,700 67,750 13,355 9,779 13,459
67,750 67,800 13,368 9,791 13,473
67,800 67,850 13,380 9,804 13,487
67,850 67,900 13,393 9,816 13,501
67,900 67,950 13,405 9,829 13,515
67,950 68,000 13,418 9,841 13,529

If Form If Form If Form

(Continued on page 42)

Instructions for Form 1040NR - 41 -Page 42 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

68,000
68,000 68,050 13,430 9,854 13,543
68,050 68,100 13,443 9,866 13,557
68,100 68,150 13,455 9,879 13,571
68,150 68,200 13,468 9,891 13,585
68,200 68,250 13,480 9,904 13,599
68,250 68,300 13,493 9,916 13,613
68,300 68,350 13,505 9,929 13,627
68,350 68,400 13,518 9,941 13,641
68,400 68,450 13,530 9,954 13,655
68,450 68,500 13,543 9,966 13,669
68,500 68,550 13,555 9,979 13,683
68,550 68,600 13,568 9,991 13,697
68,600 68,650 13,580 10,004 13,711
68,650 68,700 13,593 10,016 13,725
68,700 68,750 13,605 10,029 13,739
68,750 68,800 13,618 10,041 13,753
68,800 68,850 13,630 10,054 13,767
68,850 68,900 13,643 10,066 13,781
68,900 68,950 13,655 10,079 13,795
68,950 69,000 13,668 10,091 13,809
69,000
69,000 69,050 13,680 10,104 13,823
69,050 69,100 13,693 10,116 13,837
69,100 69,150 13,705 10,129 13,851
69,150 69,200 13,718 10,141 13,865
69,200 69,250 13,730 10,154 13,879
69,250 69,300 13,743 10,166 13,893
69,300 69,350 13,755 10,179 13,907
69,350 69,400 13,768 10,191 13,921
69,400 69,450 13,780 10,204 13,935
69,450 69,500 13,793 10,216 13,949
69,500 69,550 13,805 10,229 13,963
69,550 69,600 13,818 10,241 13,977
69,600 69,650 13,830 10,254 13,991
69,650 69,700 13,843 10,266 14,005
69,700 69,750 13,855 10,279 14,019
69,750 69,800 13,868 10,291 14,033
69,800 69,850 13,880 10,304 14,047
69,850 69,900 13,893 10,316 14,061
69,900 69,950 13,905 10,329 14,075
69,950 70,000 13,918 10,341 14,089
70,000
70,000 70,050 13,930 10,354 14,103
70,050 70,100 13,943 10,366 14,117
70,100 70,150 13,955 10,379 14,131
70,150 70,200 13,968 10,391 14,145
70,200 70,250 13,980 10,404 14,159
70,250 70,300 13,993 10,416 14,173
70,300 70,350 14,005 10,429 14,187
70,350 70,400 14,018 10,441 14,201
70,400 70,450 14,030 10,454 14,215
70,450 70,500 14,043 10,466 14,229
70,500 70,550 14,055 10,479 14,243
70,550 70,600 14,068 10,491 14,257
70,600 70,650 14,080 10,504 14,271
70,650 70,700 14,093 10,516 14,285
70,700 70,750 14,105 10,529 14,299
70,750 70,800 14,118 10,541 14,313
70,800 70,850 14,130 10,554 14,327
70,850 70,900 14,143 10,566 14,341
70,900 70,950 14,155 10,579 14,355
70,950 71,000 14,168 10,591 14,369

71,000
71,000 71,050 14,180 10,604 14,383
71,050 71,100 14,193 10,616 14,397
71,100 71,150 14,205 10,629 14,411
71,150 71,200 14,218 10,641 14,425
71,200 71,250 14,230 10,654 14,439
71,250 71,300 14,243 10,666 14,453
71,300 71,350 14,255 10,679 14,467
71,350 71,400 14,268 10,691 14,481
71,400 71,450 14,280 10,704 14,495
71,450 71,500 14,293 10,716 14,509
71,500 71,550 14,305 10,729 14,523
71,550 71,600 14,318 10,741 14,537
71,600 71,650 14,330 10,754 14,551
71,650 71,700 14,343 10,766 14,565
71,700 71,750 14,355 10,779 14,579
71,750 71,800 14,368 10,791 14,593
71,800 71,850 14,380 10,804 14,607
71,850 71,900 14,393 10,816 14,621
71,900 71,950 14,405 10,829 14,635
71,950 72,000 14,418 10,841 14,649
72,000
72,000 72,050 14,430 10,854 14,663
72,050 72,100 14,443 10,866 14,677
72,100 72,150 14,455 10,879 14,691
72,150 72,200 14,468 10,891 14,705
72,200 72,250 14,480 10,904 14,719
72,250 72,300 14,493 10,916 14,733
72,300 72,350 14,505 10,929 14,747
72,350 72,400 14,518 10,941 14,761
72,400 72,450 14,530 10,954 14,775
72,450 72,500 14,543 10,966 14,789
72,500 72,550 14,555 10,979 14,803
72,550 72,600 14,568 10,991 14,817
72,600 72,650 14,580 11,004 14,831
72,650 72,700 14,593 11,016 14,845
72,700 72,750 14,605 11,029 14,859
72,750 72,800 14,618 11,041 14,873
72,800 72,850 14,630 11,054 14,887
72,850 72,900 14,643 11,066 14,901
72,900 72,950 14,655 11,079 14,915
72,950 73,000 14,668 11,091 14,929
73,000
73,000 73,050 14,680 11,104 14,943
73,050 73,100 14,693 11,116 14,957
73,100 73,150 14,705 11,129 14,971
73,150 73,200 14,718 11,141 14,985
73,200 73,250 14,730 11,154 14,999
73,250 73,300 14,743 11,166 15,013
73,300 73,350 14,755 11,179 15,027
73,350 73,400 14,768 11,191 15,041
73,400 73,450 14,780 11,204 15,055
73,450 73,500 14,793 11,216 15,069
73,500 73,550 14,805 11,229 15,083
73,550 73,600 14,818 11,241 15,097
73,600 73,650 14,830 11,254 15,111
73,650 73,700 14,843 11,266 15,125
73,700 73,750 14,855 11,279 15,139
73,750 73,800 14,868 11,291 15,153
73,800 73,850 14,880 11,304 15,167
73,850 73,900 14,893 11,316 15,181
73,900 73,950 14,905 11,329 15,195
73,950 74,000 14,918 11,341 15,209

74,000
74,000 74,050 14,930 11,354 15,223
74,050 74,100 14,943 11,366 15,237
74,100 74,150 14,955 11,379 15,251
74,150 74,200 14,968 11,391 15,265
74,200 74,250 14,980 11,404 15,279
74,250 74,300 14,993 11,416 15,293
74,300 74,350 15,005 11,429 15,307
74,350 74,400 15,018 11,441 15,321
74,400 74,450 15,030 11,454 15,335
74,450 74,500 15,043 11,466 15,349
74,500 74,550 15,055 11,479 15,363
74,550 74,600 15,068 11,491 15,377
74,600 74,650 15,080 11,504 15,391
74,650 74,700 15,093 11,516 15,405
74,700 74,750 15,105 11,529 15,419
74,750 74,800 15,118 11,541 15,433
74,800 74,850 15,130 11,554 15,447
74,850 74,900 15,143 11,566 15,461
74,900 74,950 15,155 11,579 15,475
74,950 75,000 15,168 11,591 15,489
75,000
75,000 75,050 15,180 11,604 15,503
75,050 75,100 15,193 11,616 15,517
75,100 75,150 15,205 11,629 15,531
75,150 75,200 15,218 11,641 15,545
75,200 75,250 15,230 11,654 15,559
75,250 75,300 15,243 11,666 15,573
75,300 75,350 15,255 11,679 15,587
75,350 75,400 15,268 11,691 15,601
75,400 75,450 15,280 11,704 15,615
75,450 75,500 15,293 11,716 15,629
75,500 75,550 15,305 11,729 15,643
75,550 75,600 15,318 11,741 15,657
75,600 75,650 15,330 11,754 15,671
75,650 75,700 15,343 11,766 15,685
75,700 75,750 15,355 11,779 15,699
75,750 75,800 15,368 11,791 15,713
75,800 75,850 15,380 11,804 15,727
75,850 75,900 15,393 11,816 15,741
75,900 75,950 15,405 11,829 15,755
75,950 76,000 15,418 11,841 15,769
76,000
76,000 76,050 15,430 11,854 15,783
76,050 76,100 15,443 11,866 15,797
76,100 76,150 15,455 11,879 15,811
76,150 76,200 15,468 11,891 15,825
76,200 76,250 15,480 11,904 15,839
76,250 76,300 15,493 11,916 15,853
76,300 76,350 15,505 11,929 15,867
76,350 76,400 15,518 11,941 15,881
76,400 76,450 15,530 11,954 15,895
76,450 76,500 15,543 11,966 15,909
76,500 76,550 15,555 11,979 15,923
76,550 76,600 15,568 11,991 15,937
76,600 76,650 15,580 12,004 15,951
76,650 76,700 15,593 12,016 15,965
76,700 76,750 15,605 12,029 15,979
76,750 76,800 15,618 12,041 15,993
76,800 76,850 15,630 12,054 16,007
76,850 76,900 15,643 12,066 16,021
76,900 76,950 15,655 12,079 16,035
76,950 77,000 15,668 12,091 16,049

(Continued on page 43)
- 42 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 43 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

2007 Tax Table– Continued

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

77,000
77,000 77,050 15,680 12,104 16,063
77,050 77,100 15,693 12,116 16,077
77,100 77,150 15,706 12,129 16,091
77,150 77,200 15,720 12,141 16,105
77,200 77,250 15,734 12,154 16,119
77,250 77,300 15,748 12,166 16,133
77,300 77,350 15,762 12,179 16,147
77,350 77,400 15,776 12,191 16,161
77,400 77,450 15,790 12,204 16,175
77,450 77,500 15,804 12,216 16,189
77,500 77,550 15,818 12,229 16,203
77,550 77,600 15,832 12,241 16,217
77,600 77,650 15,846 12,254 16,231
77,650 77,700 15,860 12,266 16,245
77,700 77,750 15,874 12,279 16,259
77,750 77,800 15,888 12,291 16,273
77,800 77,850 15,902 12,304 16,287
77,850 77,900 15,916 12,316 16,301
77,900 77,950 15,930 12,329 16,315
77,950 78,000 15,944 12,341 16,329
78,000
78,000 78,050 15,958 12,354 16,343
78,050 78,100 15,972 12,366 16,357
78,100 78,150 15,986 12,379 16,371
78,150 78,200 16,000 12,391 16,385
78,200 78,250 16,014 12,404 16,399
78,250 78,300 16,028 12,416 16,413
78,300 78,350 16,042 12,429 16,427
78,350 78,400 16,056 12,441 16,441
78,400 78,450 16,070 12,454 16,455
78,450 78,500 16,084 12,466 16,469
78,500 78,550 16,098 12,479 16,483
78,550 78,600 16,112 12,491 16,497
78,600 78,650 16,126 12,504 16,511
78,650 78,700 16,140 12,516 16,525
78,700 78,750 16,154 12,529 16,539
78,750 78,800 16,168 12,541 16,553
78,800 78,850 16,182 12,554 16,567
78,850 78,900 16,196 12,566 16,581
78,900 78,950 16,210 12,579 16,595
78,950 79,000 16,224 12,591 16,609
79,000
79,000 79,050 16,238 12,604 16,623
79,050 79,100 16,252 12,616 16,637
79,100 79,150 16,266 12,629 16,651
79,150 79,200 16,280 12,641 16,665
79,200 79,250 16,294 12,654 16,679
79,250 79,300 16,308 12,666 16,693
79,300 79,350 16,322 12,679 16,707
79,350 79,400 16,336 12,691 16,721
79,400 79,450 16,350 12,704 16,735
79,450 79,500 16,364 12,716 16,749
79,500 79,550 16,378 12,729 16,763
79,550 79,600 16,392 12,741 16,777
79,600 79,650 16,406 12,754 16,791
79,650 79,700 16,420 12,766 16,805
79,700 79,750 16,434 12,779 16,819
79,750 79,800 16,448 12,791 16,833
79,800 79,850 16,462 12,804 16,847
79,850 79,900 16,476 12,816 16,861
79,900 79,950 16,490 12,829 16,875
79,950 80,000 16,504 12,841 16,889

80,000
80,000 80,050 16,518 12,854 16,903
80,050 80,100 16,532 12,866 16,917
80,100 80,150 16,546 12,879 16,931
80,150 80,200 16,560 12,891 16,945
80,200 80,250 16,574 12,904 16,959
80,250 80,300 16,588 12,916 16,973
80,300 80,350 16,602 12,929 16,987
80,350 80,400 16,616 12,941 17,001
80,400 80,450 16,630 12,954 17,015
80,450 80,500 16,644 12,966 17,029
80,500 80,550 16,658 12,979 17,043
80,550 80,600 16,672 12,991 17,057
80,600 80,650 16,686 13,004 17,071
80,650 80,700 16,700 13,016 17,085
80,700 80,750 16,714 13,029 17,099
80,750 80,800 16,728 13,041 17,113
80,800 80,850 16,742 13,054 17,127
80,850 80,900 16,756 13,066 17,141
80,900 80,950 16,770 13,079 17,155
80,950 81,000 16,784 13,091 17,169
81,000
81,000 81,050 16,798 13,104 17,183
81,050 81,100 16,812 13,116 17,197
81,100 81,150 16,826 13,129 17,211
81,150 81,200 16,840 13,141 17,225
81,200 81,250 16,854 13,154 17,239
81,250 81,300 16,868 13,166 17,253
81,300 81,350 16,882 13,179 17,267
81,350 81,400 16,896 13,191 17,281
81,400 81,450 16,910 13,204 17,295
81,450 81,500 16,924 13,216 17,309
81,500 81,550 16,938 13,229 17,323
81,550 81,600 16,952 13,241 17,337
81,600 81,650 16,966 13,254 17,351
81,650 81,700 16,980 13,266 17,365
81,700 81,750 16,994 13,279 17,379
81,750 81,800 17,008 13,291 17,393
81,800 81,850 17,022 13,304 17,407
81,850 81,900 17,036 13,316 17,421
81,900 81,950 17,050 13,329 17,435
81,950 82,000 17,064 13,341 17,449
82,000
82,000 82,050 17,078 13,354 17,463
82,050 82,100 17,092 13,366 17,477
82,100 82,150 17,106 13,379 17,491
82,150 82,200 17,120 13,391 17,505
82,200 82,250 17,134 13,404 17,519
82,250 82,300 17,148 13,416 17,533
82,300 82,350 17,162 13,429 17,547
82,350 82,400 17,176 13,441 17,561
82,400 82,450 17,190 13,454 17,575
82,450 82,500 17,204 13,466 17,589
82,500 82,550 17,218 13,479 17,603
82,550 82,600 17,232 13,491 17,617
82,600 82,650 17,246 13,504 17,631
82,650 82,700 17,260 13,516 17,645
82,700 82,750 17,274 13,529 17,659
82,750 82,800 17,288 13,541 17,673
82,800 82,850 17,302 13,554 17,687
82,850 82,900 17,316 13,566 17,701
82,900 82,950 17,330 13,579 17,715
82,950 83,000 17,344 13,591 17,729

83,000
83,000 83,050 17,358 13,604 17,743
83,050 83,100 17,372 13,616 17,757
83,100 83,150 17,386 13,629 17,771
83,150 83,200 17,400 13,641 17,785
83,200 83,250 17,414 13,654 17,799
83,250 83,300 17,428 13,666 17,813
83,300 83,350 17,442 13,679 17,827
83,350 83,400 17,456 13,691 17,841
83,400 83,450 17,470 13,704 17,855
83,450 83,500 17,484 13,716 17,869
83,500 83,550 17,498 13,729 17,883
83,550 83,600 17,512 13,741 17,897
83,600 83,650 17,526 13,754 17,911
83,650 83,700 17,540 13,766 17,925
83,700 83,750 17,554 13,779 17,939
83,750 83,800 17,568 13,791 17,953
83,800 83,850 17,582 13,804 17,967
83,850 83,900 17,596 13,816 17,981
83,900 83,950 17,610 13,829 17,995
83,950 84,000 17,624 13,841 18,009
84,000
84,000 84,050 17,638 13,854 18,023
84,050 84,100 17,652 13,866 18,037
84,100 84,150 17,666 13,879 18,051
84,150 84,200 17,680 13,891 18,065
84,200 84,250 17,694 13,904 18,079
84,250 84,300 17,708 13,916 18,093
84,300 84,350 17,722 13,929 18,107
84,350 84,400 17,736 13,941 18,121
84,400 84,450 17,750 13,954 18,135
84,450 84,500 17,764 13,966 18,149
84,500 84,550 17,778 13,979 18,163
84,550 84,600 17,792 13,991 18,177
84,600 84,650 17,806 14,004 18,191
84,650 84,700 17,820 14,016 18,205
84,700 84,750 17,834 14,029 18,219
84,750 84,800 17,848 14,041 18,233
84,800 84,850 17,862 14,054 18,247
84,850 84,900 17,876 14,066 18,261
84,900 84,950 17,890 14,079 18,275
84,950 85,000 17,904 14,091 18,289
85,000
85,000 85,050 17,918 14,104 18,303
85,050 85,100 17,932 14,116 18,317
85,100 85,150 17,946 14,129 18,331
85,150 85,200 17,960 14,141 18,345
85,200 85,250 17,974 14,154 18,359
85,250 85,300 17,988 14,166 18,373
85,300 85,350 18,002 14,179 18,387
85,350 85,400 18,016 14,191 18,401
85,400 85,450 18,030 14,204 18,415
85,450 85,500 18,044 14,216 18,429
85,500 85,550 18,058 14,229 18,443
85,550 85,600 18,072 14,241 18,457
85,600 85,650 18,086 14,254 18,471
85,650 85,700 18,100 14,266 18,485
85,700 85,750 18,114 14,279 18,499
85,750 85,800 18,128 14,291 18,513
85,800 85,850 18,142 14,304 18,527
85,850 85,900 18,156 14,316 18,541
85,900 85,950 18,170 14,329 18,555
85,950 86,000 18,184 14,341 18,569

If Form If Form If Form

(Continued on page 44)

Instructions for Form 1040NR - 43 -Page 44 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table– Continued
If Form If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married At But Single Qualifying Married

Your tax is— Your tax is— Your tax is—

86,000
86,000 86,050 18,198 14,354 18,583
86,050 86,100 18,212 14,366 18,597
86,100 86,150 18,226 14,379 18,611
86,150 86,200 18,240 14,391 18,625
86,200 86,250 18,254 14,404 18,639
86,250 86,300 18,268 14,416 18,653
86,300 86,350 18,282 14,429 18,667
86,350 86,400 18,296 14,441 18,681
86,400 86,450 18,310 14,454 18,695
86,450 86,500 18,324 14,466 18,709
86,500 86,550 18,338 14,479 18,723
86,550 86,600 18,352 14,491 18,737
86,600 86,650 18,366 14,504 18,751
86,650 86,700 18,380 14,516 18,765
86,700 86,750 18,394 14,529 18,779
86,750 86,800 18,408 14,541 18,793
86,800 86,850 18,422 14,554 18,807
86,850 86,900 18,436 14,566 18,821
86,900 86,950 18,450 14,579 18,835
86,950 87,000 18,464 14,591 18,849
87,000
87,000 87,050 18,478 14,604 18,863
87,050 87,100 18,492 14,616 18,877
87,100 87,150 18,506 14,629 18,891
87,150 87,200 18,520 14,641 18,905
87,200 87,250 18,534 14,654 18,919
87,250 87,300 18,548 14,666 18,933
87,300 87,350 18,562 14,679 18,947
87,350 87,400 18,576 14,691 18,961
87,400 87,450 18,590 14,704 18,975
87,450 87,500 18,604 14,716 18,989
87,500 87,550 18,618 14,729 19,003
87,550 87,600 18,632 14,741 19,017
87,600 87,650 18,646 14,754 19,031
87,650 87,700 18,660 14,766 19,045
87,700 87,750 18,674 14,779 19,059
87,750 87,800 18,688 14,791 19,073
87,800 87,850 18,702 14,804 19,087
87,850 87,900 18,716 14,816 19,101
87,900 87,950 18,730 14,829 19,115
87,950 88,000 18,744 14,841 19,129
88,000
88,000 88,050 18,758 14,854 19,143
88,050 88,100 18,772 14,866 19,157
88,100 88,150 18,786 14,879 19,171
88,150 88,200 18,800 14,891 19,185
88,200 88,250 18,814 14,904 19,199
88,250 88,300 18,828 14,916 19,213
88,300 88,350 18,842 14,929 19,227
88,350 88,400 18,856 14,941 19,241
88,400 88,450 18,870 14,954 19,255
88,450 88,500 18,884 14,966 19,269
88,500 88,550 18,898 14,979 19,283
88,550 88,600 18,912 14,991 19,297
88,600 88,650 18,926 15,004 19,311
88,650 88,700 18,940 15,016 19,325
88,700 88,750 18,954 15,029 19,339
88,750 88,800 18,968 15,041 19,353
88,800 88,850 18,982 15,054 19,367
88,850 88,900 18,996 15,066 19,381
88,900 88,950 19,010 15,079 19,395
88,950 89,000 19,024 15,091 19,409

89,000
89,000 89,050 19,038 15,104 19,423
89,050 89,100 19,052 15,116 19,437
89,100 89,150 19,066 15,129 19,451
89,150 89,200 19,080 15,141 19,465
89,200 89,250 19,094 15,154 19,479
89,250 89,300 19,108 15,166 19,493
89,300 89,350 19,122 15,179 19,507
89,350 89,400 19,136 15,191 19,521
89,400 89,450 19,150 15,204 19,535
89,450 89,500 19,164 15,216 19,549
89,500 89,550 19,178 15,229 19,563
89,550 89,600 19,192 15,241 19,577
89,600 89,650 19,206 15,254 19,591
89,650 89,700 19,220 15,266 19,605
89,700 89,750 19,234 15,279 19,619
89,750 89,800 19,248 15,291 19,633
89,800 89,850 19,262 15,304 19,647
89,850 89,900 19,276 15,316 19,661
89,900 89,950 19,290 15,329 19,675
89,950 90,000 19,304 15,341 19,689
90,000
90,000 90,050 19,318 15,354 19,703
90,050 90,100 19,332 15,366 19,717
90,100 90,150 19,346 15,379 19,731
90,150 90,200 19,360 15,391 19,745
90,200 90,250 19,374 15,404 19,759
90,250 90,300 19,388 15,416 19,773
90,300 90,350 19,402 15,429 19,787
90,350 90,400 19,416 15,441 19,801
90,400 90,450 19,430 15,454 19,815
90,450 90,500 19,444 15,466 19,829
90,500 90,550 19,458 15,479 19,843
90,550 90,600 19,472 15,491 19,857
90,600 90,650 19,486 15,504 19,871
90,650 90,700 19,500 15,516 19,885
90,700 90,750 19,514 15,529 19,899
90,750 90,800 19,528 15,541 19,913
90,800 90,850 19,542 15,554 19,927
90,850 90,900 19,556 15,566 19,941
90,900 90,950 19,570 15,579 19,955
90,950 91,000 19,584 15,591 19,969
91,000
91,000 91,050 19,598 15,604 19,983
91,050 91,100 19,612 15,616 19,997
91,100 91,150 19,626 15,629 20,011
91,150 91,200 19,640 15,641 20,025
91,200 91,250 19,654 15,654 20,039
91,250 91,300 19,668 15,666 20,053
91,300 91,350 19,682 15,679 20,067
91,350 91,400 19,696 15,691 20,081
91,400 91,450 19,710 15,704 20,095
91,450 91,500 19,724 15,716 20,109
91,500 91,550 19,738 15,729 20,123
91,550 91,600 19,752 15,741 20,137
91,600 91,650 19,766 15,754 20,151
91,650 91,700 19,780 15,766 20,165
91,700 91,750 19,794 15,779 20,179
91,750 91,800 19,808 15,791 20,193
91,800 91,850 19,822 15,804 20,207
91,850 91,900 19,836 15,816 20,221
91,900 91,950 19,850 15,829 20,235
91,950 92,000 19,864 15,841 20,249

92,000
92,000 92,050 19,878 15,854 20,263
92,050 92,100 19,892 15,866 20,277
92,100 92,150 19,906 15,879 20,291
92,150 92,200 19,920 15,891 20,305
92,200 92,250 19,934 15,904 20,319
92,250 92,300 19,948 15,916 20,333
92,300 92,350 19,962 15,929 20,347
92,350 92,400 19,976 15,941 20,361
92,400 92,450 19,990 15,954 20,375
92,450 92,500 20,004 15,966 20,389
92,500 92,550 20,018 15,979 20,403
92,550 92,600 20,032 15,991 20,417
92,600 92,650 20,046 16,004 20,431
92,650 92,700 20,060 16,016 20,445
92,700 92,750 20,074 16,029 20,459
92,750 92,800 20,088 16,041 20,473
92,800 92,850 20,102 16,054 20,487
92,850 92,900 20,116 16,066 20,501
92,900 92,950 20,130 16,079 20,515
92,950 93,000 20,144 16,091 20,529
93,000
93,000 93,050 20,158 16,104 20,543
93,050 93,100 20,172 16,116 20,557
93,100 93,150 20,186 16,129 20,571
93,150 93,200 20,200 16,141 20,585
93,200 93,250 20,214 16,154 20,599
93,250 93,300 20,228 16,166 20,613
93,300 93,350 20,242 16,179 20,627
93,350 93,400 20,256 16,191 20,641
93,400 93,450 20,270 16,204 20,655
93,450 93,500 20,284 16,216 20,669
93,500 93,550 20,298 16,229 20,683
93,550 93,600 20,312 16,241 20,697
93,600 93,650 20,326 16,254 20,711
93,650 93,700 20,340 16,266 20,725
93,700 93,750 20,354 16,279 20,739
93,750 93,800 20,368 16,291 20,753
93,800 93,850 20,382 16,304 20,767
93,850 93,900 20,396 16,316 20,781
93,900 93,950 20,410 16,329 20,795
93,950 94,000 20,424 16,341 20,809
94,000
94,000 94,050 20,438 16,354 20,823
94,050 94,100 20,452 16,366 20,837
94,100 94,150 20,466 16,379 20,851
94,150 94,200 20,480 16,391 20,865
94,200 94,250 20,494 16,404 20,879
94,250 94,300 20,508 16,416 20,893
94,300 94,350 20,522 16,429 20,907
94,350 94,400 20,536 16,441 20,921
94,400 94,450 20,550 16,454 20,935
94,450 94,500 20,564 16,466 20,949
94,500 94,550 20,578 16,479 20,963
94,550 94,600 20,592 16,491 20,977
94,600 94,650 20,606 16,504 20,991
94,650 94,700 20,620 16,516 21,005
94,700 94,750 20,634 16,529 21,019
94,750 94,800 20,648 16,541 21,033
94,800 94,850 20,662 16,554 21,047
94,850 94,900 20,676 16,566 21,061
94,900 94,950 20,690 16,579 21,075
94,950 95,000 20,704 16,591 21,089

(Continued on page 45)
- 44 - Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 45 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Table– Continued

If Form If Form
1040NR, And you are— 1040NR, And you are—
line 40, is— line 40, is—
least less widow(er) filing least less widow(er) filing
than separately than separately

At But Single Qualifying Married

At But Single Qualifying Married

Your tax is— Your tax is—

95,000 98,000

95,000 95,050 20,718 16,604 21,103
95,050 95,100 20,732 16,616 21,117
95,100 95,150 20,746 16,629 21,131
95,150 95,200 20,760 16,641 21,145
95,200 95,250 20,774 16,654 21,159
95,250 95,300 20,788 16,666 21,173
95,300 95,350 20,802 16,679 21,187
95,350 95,400 20,816 16,691 21,201
95,400 95,450 20,830 16,704 21,215
95,450 95,500 20,844 16,716 21,229
95,500 95,550 20,858 16,729 21,243
95,550 95,600 20,872 16,741 21,257
95,600 95,650 20,886 16,754 21,271
95,650 95,700 20,900 16,766 21,285
95,700 95,750 20,914 16,779 21,299
95,750 95,800 20,928 16,791 21,313
95,800 95,850 20,942 16,804 21,327
95,850 95,900 20,956 16,816 21,341
95,900 95,950 20,970 16,829 21,355
95,950 96,000 20,984 16,841 21,369

98,000 98,050 21,558 17,354 21,948
98,050 98,100 21,572 17,366 21,965
98,100 98,150 21,586 17,379 21,981
98,150 98,200 21,600 17,391 21,998
98,200 98,250 21,614 17,404 22,014
98,250 98,300 21,628 17,416 22,031
98,300 98,350 21,642 17,429 22,047
98,350 98,400 21,656 17,441 22,064
98,400 98,450 21,670 17,454 22,080
98,450 98,500 21,684 17,466 22,097
98,500 98,550 21,698 17,479 22,113
98,550 98,600 21,712 17,491 22,130
98,600 98,650 21,726 17,504 22,146
98,650 98,700 21,740 17,516 22,163
98,700 98,750 21,754 17,529 22,179
98,750 98,800 21,768 17,541 22,196
98,800 98,850 21,782 17,554 22,212
98,850 98,900 21,796 17,566 22,229
98,900 98,950 21,810 17,579 22,245
98,950 99,000 21,824 17,591 22,262

96,000 99,000

96,000 96,050 20,998 16,854 21,383
96,050 96,100 21,012 16,866 21,397
96,100 96,150 21,026 16,879 21,411
96,150 96,200 21,040 16,891 21,425
96,200 96,250 21,054 16,904 21,439
96,250 96,300 21,068 16,916 21,453
96,300 96,350 21,082 16,929 21,467
96,350 96,400 21,096 16,941 21,481
96,400 96,450 21,110 16,954 21,495
96,450 96,500 21,124 16,966 21,509
96,500 96,550 21,138 16,979 21,523
96,550 96,600 21,152 16,991 21,537
96,600 96,650 21,166 17,004 21,551
96,650 96,700 21,180 17,016 21,565
96,700 96,750 21,194 17,029 21,579
96,750 96,800 21,208 17,041 21,593
96,800 96,850 21,222 17,054 21,607
96,850 96,900 21,236 17,066 21,621
96,900 96,950 21,250 17,079 21,635
96,950 97,000 21,264 17,091 21,649
97,000
97,000 97,050 21,278 17,104 21,663
97,050 97,100 21,292 17,116 21,677
97,100 97,150 21,306 17,129 21,691
97,150 97,200 21,320 17,141 21,705
97,200 97,250 21,334 17,154 21,719
97,250 97,300 21,348 17,166 21,733
97,300 97,350 21,362 17,179 21,747
97,350 97,400 21,376 17,191 21,761
97,400 97,450 21,390 17,204 21,775
97,450 97,500 21,404 17,216 21,789
97,500 97,550 21,418 17,229 21,803
97,550 97,600 21,432 17,241 21,817
97,600 97,650 21,446 17,254 21,831
97,650 97,700 21,460 17,266 21,845
97,700 97,750 21,474 17,279 21,859
97,750 97,800 21,488 17,291 21,873
97,800 97,850 21,502 17,304 21,887
97,850 97,900 21,516 17,316 21,901
97,900 97,950 21,530 17,329 21,915
97,950 98,000 21,544 17,341 21,932

99,000 99,050 21,838 17,604 22,278
99,050 99,100 21,852 17,616 22,295
99,100 99,150 21,866 17,629 22,311
99,150 99,200 21,880 17,641 22,328
99,200 99,250 21,894 17,654 22,344
99,250 99,300 21,908 17,666 22,361
99,300 99,350 21,922 17,679 22,377
99,350 99,400 21,936 17,691 22,394
99,400 99,450 21,950 17,704 22,410
99,450 99,500 21,964 17,716 22,427
99,500 99,550 21,978 17,729 22,443
99,550 99,600 21,992 17,741 22,460
99,600 99,650 22,006 17,754 22,476
99,650 99,700 22,020 17,766 22,493
99,700 99,750 22,034 17,779 22,509
99,750 99,800 22,048 17,791 22,526
99,800 99,850 22,062 17,804 22,542
99,850 99,900 22,076 17,816 22,559
99,900 99,950 22,090 17,829 22,575
99,950 100,000 22,104 17,841 22,592
$100,000
or overuse the Tax
Computation

Worksheet
on page 46

Instructions for Form 1040NR - 45 -Page 46 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Computation Worksheet—Line 41
See the instructions for line 41 that begin on page 18 to see if you must use the worksheet below to figure your tax.

!
CAUTION

Section A — Use if you checked filing status box 1 or 2 for Single. Complete the row below that applies to you.

Taxable income. (a) (b) (c) (d) Tax.
If line 40 is: Enter the amount from Multiplication Multiply Subtraction Subtract (d) from (c).

line 40 amount (a) by (b) amount Enter the result here

At least $100,000 but not over
$160,850 $ 28% (.28) $ $ 5,889.25 $
Over $160,850 but not over
$349,700 $ 33% (.33) $ $ 13,931.75 $
Over $349,700 $ 35% (.35) $ $ 20,925.75 $
Section B — Use if you checked filing status box 6 for Qualifying widow(er). Complete the row below that applies to you.

Taxable income. (a) (b) (c) (d) Tax.
If line 40 is: Enter the amount from Multiplication Multiply Subtraction Subtract (d) from (c).

and on
Form 1040NR, line 41

line 40 amount (a) by (b) amount Enter the result here

At least $100,000 but not over
$128,500 $ 25% (.25) $ $ 7,152.50 $
Over $128,500 but not over
$195,850 $ 28% (.28) $ $ 11,007.50 $
Over $195,850 but not over
$349,700 $ 33% (.33) $ $ 20,800.00 $
Over $349,700 $ 35% (.35) $ $ 27,794.00 $
Section C — Use if you checked filing status box 3, 4, or 5 for Married filing separately. Complete the row below that
applies to you.

Taxable income (a) (b) (c) (d) Tax.
If line 40 is: Enter the amount from Multiplication Multiply Subtraction Subtract (d) from (c).

and on
Form 1040NR, line 41

line 40 amount (a) by (b) amount Enter the result here

At least $100,000 but not
over $174,850 $ 33% (.33) $ $ 10,400.00 $
Over $174,850 $ 35% (.35) $ $ 13,897.00 $

and on
Form 1040NR, line 41

-46- Instructions for Form 1040NRPage 47 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

2007 Tax Rate Schedules

Estates or Trusts. Use Schedule W below to compute your tax.

Individuals. If your taxable income is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation Worksheet on page 46 to compute
! your tax. The Tax Rate Schedules are shown so you can see that tax rate that applies to all levels of taxable income
CAUTION
Schedule W Schedule X
Estates or Trusts Single Taxpayers— If you checked Filing Status
Use this schedule for a nonresident alien estate or trust— Box 1 or 2 on Form 1040NR
of Form 1040NR, line 41 income is:
1040NR, line
40, is:

but should not be used to figure your tax.
If the amount Enter on Form

If taxable The tax is:

of the of the

But not amount But not amount

Over — over — over — Over — over — over —

$0 $7,825 10% $0

$0 $2,150 15% $0 7,825 31,850 $782.50 + 15% 7,825
2,150 5,000 $322.50 + 25% 2,150 31,850 77,100 4,386.25 + 25% 31,850
5,000 7,650 1,035.00 + 28% 5,000 77,100 160,850 15,698.75 + 28% 77,100
7,650 10,450 1,777.00 + 33% 7,650 160,850 349,700 39,148.75 + 33% 160,850
10,450 2,701.00 + 35% 10,450 349,700 101,469.25 + 35% 349,700
Schedule Y Schedule Z
Married Filing Separate Returns— If you checked Qualifying Widows and Widowers— If you
Filing Status Box 3, 4, or 5 on Form 1040NR
income is: income is:

If taxable The tax is:

checked Filing Status Box 6 on Form 1040NR

If taxable The tax is:

of the of the

But not amount But not amount

Over — over — over — Over — over — over —
$0 $7,825 10% $0 $0 $15,650 10% $0
7,825 31,850 $782.50 + 15% 7,825 15,650 63,700 $1,565.00 + 15% 15,650
31,850 64,250 4,386.25 + 25% 31,850 63,700 128,500 8,772.50 + 25% 63,700
64,250 97,925 12,486.25 + 28% 64,250 128,500 195,850 24,972.50 + 28% 128,500
97,925 174,850 21,915.25 + 33% 97,925 195,850 349,700 43,830.50 + 33% 195,850
174,850 47,300.50 + 35% 174,850 349,700 94,601.00 + 35% 349,700

Instructions for Form 1040NR -47-Page 48 of 48 Instructions for Form 1040NR 7:48 - 6-DEC-2007

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Index

A Estimated tax penalty ....... 25 N Standard mileage rate ....... 26
Address change ............ 31 Estimated tax,
Adjustments ................ 15 individuals 23, 24, 25, 30 defined .................... 2 deduction for ............. 26
Adoption expenses: Excess salary deferrals ...... 10 Student loan interest
Employer-provided benefits Excess social security and Tier O deduction ................. 16
for ..................... 10 1 RRTA tax withheld ...... 23 Original issue discount ...... 29
Alternative minimum tax:
Refundable credit for prior
year .................... 23 worksheet ................ 18
Amended return ............. 31 F
Amount you owe ............ 25 P
Annuities 13, 29 Payments ................... 23
B Former U.S. citizens and savings ................. 16 Taxes:
Business income or
(loss) ..................... 12 Expatriation after June 3,
C Expatriation before June 4, Late payment ............. 31 Archer MSAs ........... 22
Capital assets, sales or

Extension of time to file ....... 4 Other taxes ................. 22 Tax computation
Filing requirements ........... 2 Tax rates ................... 18
Filing status .................. 8 Tax table 18, 34-45
Foreign tax credit ........... 20 Early withdrawal of
2004 .................... 6 Late filing ................. 31 Alternative minimum .... 19
2004 .................... 6 Other ..................... 31 Golden parachute

Exemptions 9, 18 Other income ............... 15 T
Penalties:
long-term residents: Estimated tax ............. 25 Income effectively
Frivolous return ........... 31 connected .............. 18

Nonresident aliens, State and local income taxes,
Tax rate schedules .......... 18
Tax withholding 23, 29

Pensions and annuities ...... 13 payments ............ 23

exchanges 12, 19, 29

Capital gain
distributions 11, 12, 19
Capital gain tax
worksheet ................ 19
Capital gains and
(losses) 12, 19, 29
Casualty and theft
losses .................... 27
Charity, gifts to 26-27
Child and dependent care
expenses:

G
Gains and (losses),
capital
Golden parachute
payments ................. 23
Group-term life insurance,
H

Preparer, requirement to sign
tax return ................. 30
12, 29 Private delivery services ...... 4
Problems, unresolved
tax ....................... 32
Public debt—Gift to reduce
Q

Section 72(m)(5) excess
benefits .............. 22
Social security and
Medicare tax on
Uncollected employee
tax on tips ............ 23

Credit for ................. 20 Health savings account

Child of divorced or separated

connected .............. 29

parents, exemption for ..... 9 Household employment

Child tax credits
Community income ........... 6
Credit for amount paid with
Form 1040-C ............. 23
Credits against tax ....5,
D
Daycare expenses .......... 20
Credit for ................. 20
Debt held by the public, gift to

20, 23 taxes ..................... 22
Hurricane tax relief .......... 26
20, 21
Income to be reported

Qualified retirement plans,
Real property income
CWEDT ED siereestessseeeeegg THCOWE LOBE BEGOBLED T°" OTE. yerouno? HOW FOWE 10 —————
keep ..................... 31

Tip income 10, 22
Transportation tax ........... 22
Trusts, exemption deduction
U

reduce ................... 31 arrangements (IRAs):

Decedents ................... 3
Dependent care benefits
Dependents, exemption

Contributions to ........... 16
.... 10 Distributions from ......... 12

Refunds, credits, or offsets of
state and local income

dispositions of ............. 6
Unemployment

deduction for 9, 18 Interest charged due to late

Direct deposit of refund ...... 24

Dispositions of U.S. real

property interests .......... 6
Dividend income
Divorced or separated parents,
children of ................. 9
deduction ................. 17
Dual-status taxpayers ........ 4
E
Educator expenses
deduction ................. 15
Effectively connected

Itemized deductions
11, 29
K
Line instructions for Form
M

18,
self-employed ............ 15
Royalties ................... 29
S

qualifying .................. 9
lotteries .................. 29
Withholding tax 23, 29

income 9-15 Married persons who live

Election to be taxed as a

resident alien .............. 4
Estates
Estates, exemption deduction
for........................ 18

Mileage rates, standard ...... 1
3, 4, 8 Miscellaneous itemized
Moving expenses

Scholarship and fellowship
grants 11, 16
1, 15

Self-employed ............ 16 Qualified dividends tax
deduction ................. 15 Qualified performing
I R
Identifying number ........... 8 Railroad retirement benefits
Identity theft ................ 30 (Tier 1) ................... 29
Income tax withholding ...... 30 for........................ 18
Individual retirement
Installment payments ........ 25 taxes ..................... 11 compensation ............ 15
Interest income 10, 29 Requesting a copy of your tax W
Domestic production activities Kinds of income .............. 6 Retirement plan deduction,
L dollars ..................... 9
1040NR ................... 8
apart ...................... 8 assets 12, 29

uncollected tax on ........ 23 the ....................... 31 tips .................. 22
Health insurance deduction: Qualified dividends .......... 11 Medicare or Tier 1 RRTA
worksheet ................ 19 Income not effectively
Refund ..................... 23 U.S. real property interests,
Reminders .................. 30 Unresolved tax problems .... 32
payment of tax ............ 31 Rental income .............. 29
Salaries and wages 10, 29
Sales or exchanges, capital
deductions ................ 28 Social security benefits ...... 29

IRAs and other qualified
retirement plans ...... 22
Recapture taxes ........ 22
social security and
artists .................... 17 Taxpayer assistance ........ 32
Third party designee ........ 26
deduction for ............. 15 Tier 1 RRTA tax withheld .... 23
Treaty-exempt income ...... 15
Trusts 3, 4, 8, 23
return .................... 31 Wages and salaries 10, 29
26-28 Resident aliens .............. 2 When to file .................. 4
Residential energy expenses: Where to file ................. 4
Credit for ................. 20 Who must file ................ 2
Widows and widowers,
Rounding off to whole Winnings, proceeds from prizes,
awards, gambling and

-48- Instructions for Form 1040NRUserid: DTD TIP04 Leadpct: 0% Pt. size: 8 Draft Ok to Print
Fileid: D:\Users\d4rfb\Documents\Epicfiles\2007\07P4655.sgm (Init. & date)
Page 1 of 2 of Publication 4655 13:17 - 18-JAN-2008

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Publication 4655 Introduction

(Rev. January 2008)

As a result of the Tax Technical Corrections Act

Cat. No. 51145E

of 2007, the following instructional changes ap-

ply when completing the 2007 Form 1040 (or

Form 1040NR). The paper and online versions

Treasury Supplemental
Internal
Revenue Service Instructions for
2007 Form 1040

of Form 1040 (and Form 1040NR) and instructions will not be revised.
Changes to the 2007
Instructions for Form

and Form 1040 (and Form

1040NR)

1040NR

The tax from Form 8889, Part III (relating
to health savings accounts) that was to be
reported on Form 1040, line 44 (or Form
1040NR, line 41), using checkbox “c” must
instead be included in the total on Form
1040, line 63 (or Form 1040NR, line 58),
as an additional write-in tax. On the dotted
line next to Form 1040, line 63 (or Form
1040NR, line 58), enter “HDHP” and the
amount of this tax.
The additional tax on recapture of a charitable contribution of a fractional interest in
tangible personal property that was to be
included on Form 1040, line 44 (or Form
1040NR, line 41), must instead be included in the total on Form 1040, line 63
(or Form 1040NR, line 58), as an additional write-in tax. On the dotted line next
to Form 1040, line 63 (or Form 1040NR,
line 58), enter “FITPP” and the amount of
this tax.
All filers of Forms 2555 or 2555-EZ must
disregard the Foreign Earned Income Tax
Worksheet on page 34 of the Instructions
for Form 1040 and instead use the revised
worksheet on the next page.

Department
of the

Get forms and other information
faster and easier by:
Internet www.irs.govPage 2 of 2 of Publication 4655 13:17 - 18-JAN-2008

The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.

Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet—Line 44 Keep for Your Records
Before you begin: If Form 1040, line 43, is zero, do not complete this worksheet.
1. Enter the amount from Form 1040, line 43 1.
2. Enter the amount from your (and your spouse’s, if filing jointly) Form 2555, line 45, or Form 2555-EZ,
line 18 2.
3. Add lines 1 and 2 3.
4. Tax on the amount on line 3. Use the Tax Table, Tax Computation Worksheet, Qualified Dividends
and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet*, Schedule D Tax Worksheet*, or Form 8615, whichever applies.
See the instructions for Form 1040, line 44, to see which tax computation method applies 4.
5. Tax on the amount line 2. Use the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet, whichever applies 5.
6. Subtract line 5 from line 4. Enter the result. If zero or less, enter –0–. Also include this amount on
Form 1040, line 44 6.
*Enter the amount from line 3 above on line 1 of the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet if you use
either of those worksheets to figure the tax on line 4 above. Complete the rest of that worksheet through line 6 (line 10 if you use the Schedule D
Tax Worksheet). Next, you must determine if you have a capital gain excess. To find out if you have a capital gain excess, subtract Form 1040,
line 43, from line 6 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet (line 10 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet). If the result is more
than zero, that amount is your capital gain excess.
If you do not have a capital gain excess, complete the rest of either of those worksheets according to the worksheet’s instructions. Then
complete lines 5 and 6 above.
If you have a capital gain excess, complete a second Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet
(whichever applies) as instructed above but in its entirety and with the following additional modifications. Then complete lines 5 and 6 above.
These modifications are to be made only for purposes of filling out the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet above.
1. Reduce the amount you would otherwise enter on line 3 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or line 9 of your
Schedule D Tax Worksheet (but not below zero) by your capital gain excess.
2. Reduce the amount you would otherwise enter on Form 1040, line 9b, (but not below zero) by any of your capital gain excess not used in (1)
above.
3. Reduce the amount on your Schedule D (Form 1040), line 18, (but not below zero) by your capital gain excess.
4. Include your capital gain excess as a loss on line 16 of your Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet on page D-9 of the Instructions for
Schedule D (Form 1040).

Page 2 Publication 4655 (January 2008)