Preemptive Information Extraction using Unrestricted Relation Discovery

Yusuke Shinyama Satoshi Sekine
New York University
715, Broadway, 7th Floor
New York, NY, 10003
{yusuke,sekine}@cs.nyu.edu

Abstract
We are trying to extend the boundary of
Information Extraction (IE) systems. Existing IE systems require a lot of time and
human effort to tune for a new scenario.
Preemptive Information Extraction is an
attempt to automatically create all feasible
IE systems in advance without human intervention. We propose a technique called
Unrestricted Relation Discovery that dis-
covers all possible relations from texts and
presents them as tables. We present a preliminary system that obtains reasonably
good results.
1 Background
Every day, a large number of news articles are cre-

cles and adjust its patterns, either manually or semiautomatically. There is a bit of a dangerous pitfall
here. First, it is hard to estimate how good the system can be after months of work. Furthermore, you
might not know if the task is even doable in the ﬁrst
place. Knowing what kind of information is easily
obtained in advance would help reduce this risk.
AnIE task can be deﬁned as ﬁnding a relation
among several entities involved in a certain type of
event. For example, in the MUC-6 management
succession scenario, one seeks a relation between
COMPANY, PERSON and POST involved with hiring/ﬁring events. For each row of an extracted table, you can always read it as “COMPANY hired
(or ﬁred) PERSON for POST.” The relation between
these entities is retained throughout the table. There
are many existing works on obtaining extraction patterns for pre-deﬁned relations (Riloff, 1996; Yangar-
ber et al., 2000; Agichtein and Gravano, 2000; Sudo

ated and reported, many of which are unique. But et al., 2003).

certain types of events, such as hurricanes or murders, are reported again and again throughout a year.
The goal of Information Extraction, or IE, is to retrieve a certain type of news event from past articles
and present the events as a table whose columns are
ﬁlled with a name of a person or company, according to its role in the event. However, existing IE
techniques require a lot of human labor. First, you
have to specify the type of information you want and
collect articles that include this information. Then,
you have to analyze the articles and manually craft
a set of patterns to capture these events. Most existing IE research focuses on reducing this burden by
helping people create such patterns. But each time
you want to extract a different kind of information,

Unrestricted Relation Discovery is a technique to
automatically discover such relations that repeatedly
appear in a corpus and present them as a table, with
absolutely no human intervention. Unlike most existing IE research, a user does not specify the type
of articles or information wanted. Instead, a system
tries to ﬁnd all the kinds of relations that are reported
multiple times and can be reported in tabular form.
This technique will open up the possibility of trying new IE scenarios. Furthermore, the system itself
can be used as an IE system, since an obtained relation is already presented as a table. If this system
works to a certain extent, tuning an IE system be-
comes a search problem: all the tables are already
built “preemptively.” A user only needs to search

you need to repeat the whole process: specify arti- for a relevant table.Article dump be-hit
2005-09-23 Katrina New Orleans
2005-10-02 Longwang Taiwan
2005-11-20 Gamma Florida headed was-hit
Keywords: storm, evacuate, coast, rain, hurricane
Table 1: Sample discovered relation.
We implemented a preliminary system for this
technique and obtained reasonably good performance. Table 1 is a sample relation that was extracted as a table by our system. The columns of the
table show article dates, names of hurricanes and the
places they affected respectively. The headers of the
table and its keywords were also extracted automat- article A
ically. Common Pattern Common Pattern

Katrina New Orleans
threatened has-been-evacuated
Figure 1: Obtaining basic patterns.
1. 2.
Katrina New Orleans
headed was-hit

is-category-5-residents
Basic patternsBasic patterns
article Afor entity "Katrina"for entity "New Orleans"
threatened has-been-evacuated
is-category-5-residents

"stroke" "was-hit"

2 Basic Idea 1. 2.
In Unrestricted Relation Discovery, the discovery hit 's-coast
process (i.e. creating new tables) can be formulated
as a clustering task. The key idea is to cluster a set
of articles that contain entities bearing a similar relation to each other in such a way that we can construct
a table where the entities that play the same role are
placed in the same column.
Suppose that there are two articles A and B,
and both report hurricane-related news. Article A
contains two entities “Katrina” and “New Orleans”,
and article B contains “Longwang” and “Taiwan”.
These entities are recognized by a Named Entity
(NE) tagger. We want to discover a relation among
them. First, we introduce a notion called “basic
pattern” to form a relation. A basic pattern is a
part of the text that is syntactically connected to
an entity. Some examples are “X is hit” or “Y’s
residents”. Figure 1 shows several basic patterns
connected to the entities “Katrina” and “New Orleans” in article A. Similarly, we obtain the basic
patterns for article B. Now, in Figure 2, both entities “Katrina” and “Longwang” have the basic pattern “headed” in common. In this case, we connect
these two entities to each other. Furthermore, there
is also a common basic pattern “was-hit” shared by
“New Orleans” and “Taiwan”. Now, we found two
sets of entities that can be placed in correspondence
at the same time. What does this mean? We can infer
that both entity sets (“Katrina”-“New Orleans” and
“Longwang”-“Taiwan”) represent a certain relation
that has something in common: a hurricane name

Longwang Taiwan
swirling was-hit
article B
Obtained
Figure 2: Finding a similar relation from two articles.
and the place it affected. By ﬁnding multiple parallel correspondences between two articles, we can
estimate the similarity of their relations.
Generally, in a clustering task, one groups items
by ﬁnding similar pairs. After ﬁnding a pair of articles that have a similar relation, we can bring them
by using their basic patterns as features. However,
that we can extract the name from it. We can consider a basic pattern to represent something like the
had “headed” as a basic pattern are hurricanes, and
the entities that had “was-hit” as a basic pattern are
can align the entities into the corresponding column
that represents a certain role in the relation. From
each row represents a different article, as shown in
the bottom of Figure 2.
We can extend this table by ﬁnding another article

headed was-pounded
article AKatrinaNew Orleans
article BLongwangTaiwan Table
into the same cluster. In this case, we cluster articles
each basic pattern is still connected to its entity so
“role” of its entity. In this example, the entities that
the places it affected. By using basic patterns, we
this example, we create a two-by-two table, where
each column represents the roles of the entities, and

1. 2.in the same manner. In this way, we gradually
a table while retaining a relation among its columns.
In this example, the obtained table is just what an
system (whose task is to ﬁnd a hurricane name
the affected place) would create.
However, these articles might also include
things, which could represent different relations.
example, the governments might call for help
some casualties might have been reported. To
tain such relations, we need to choose different
tities from the articles. Several existing works
tried to extract a certain type of relation by
ally choosing different pairs of entities (Brin,
Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). Hasegawa et
(2004) tried to extract multiple relations by
ing entity types. We assume that we can ﬁnd
relations by trying all possible combinations
a set of entities we have chosen in advance;
combinations might represent a hurricane and

extend enough, because the number of sentences is rather
small in comparison to the variation of expressions.
IE So having two articles that have multiple basic pat-
and terns in common is very unlikely. We extend the
number of articles for obtaining basic patterns by
other using a cluster of comparable articles that report the
For same event instead of a single article. We call this
or cluster of articles a “basic cluster.” Using basic clus-
ob- ters instead of single articles also helps to increase
en- the redundancy of data. We can give more conﬁ-
have dence to repeated basic patterns.
manu- Note that the notion of “basic cluster” is different
1998; from the clusters used for creating tables explained
al. above. In the following sections, a cluster for creat-
choos- ing a table is called a “metacluster,” because this is
such a cluster of basic clusters. A basic cluster consists
from of a set of articles that report the same event which
some happens at a certain time, and a metacluster consists
gov- of a set of events that contain the same relation over

ernment relation, and others might represent a place a certain period.

and its casualties. To ensure that an article can
several different relations, we let each article
to several different clusters.
In a real-world situation, only using basic patterns
sometimes gives undesired results. For example,
“(President) Bush ﬂew to Texas” and “(Hurricane)
Katrina ﬂew to New Orleans” both have a basic
tern “flew to” in common, so “Bush” and
rina” would be put into the same column. But
want to separate them in different tables. To
ate this problem, we put an additional restriction
clustering. We use a bag-of-words approach to
criminate two articles: if the word-based similarity
between two articles is too small, we do not
them together into the same cluster (i.e. table).
exclude names from the similarity calculation at
stage because we want to link articles about the
type of event, not the same instance. In addition,
use the frequency of each basic pattern to compute
the similarity of relations, since basic patterns
“say” or “have” appear in almost every article
is dangerous to rely on such expressions.
Increasing Basic Patterns
In the above explanation, we have assumed that
can obtain enough basic patterns from an
However, the actual number of basic patterns
one can ﬁnd from a single article is usually

have We try to increase the number of articles in a basic
belong cluster by looking at multiple news sources simultaneously. We use a clustering algorithm that uses a
vector-space-model to obtain basic clusters. Then
we apply cross-document coreference resolution to
connect entities of different articles within a basic
pat- cluster. This way, we can increase the number of ba-
“Kat- sic patterns connected to each entity. Also, it allows
we us to give a weight to entities. We calculate their
allevi- weights using the number of occurrences within a
on cluster and their position within an article. These
dis- entities are used to obtain basic patterns later.
We also use a parser and tree normalizer to gen-
bring erate basic patterns. The format of basic patterns
We is crucial to performance. We think a basic pat-
this tern should be somewhat speciﬁc, since each pat-
same tern should capture an entity with some relevant con-
we text. But at the same time a basic pattern should
be general enough to reduce data sparseness. We
like choose a predicate-argument structure as a natural
and it solution for this problem. Compared to traditional
constituent trees, a predicate-argument structure is
a higher-level representation of sentences that has
gained wide acceptance from the natural language
we community recently. In this paper we used a logical
article. feature structure called GLARF proposed by Mey-
that ers et al. (2001a). A GLARF converter takes a syn-
not tactic tree as an input and augments it with several's Newspapers

SUFFIX

Louisiana

Web

T-POS Crawling

Katrina coast Basic

Clustering

SBJ OBJ

Basic

hit Clusters

Figure 3: GLARF structure of the sentence “Katrina

Parsing

hit Louisiana’s coast.” Coreference

Resolution

GLARFing

features. Figure 3 shows a sample GLARF structure

obtained from the sentence “Katrina hit Louisiana’s

coast.” We used GLARF for two reasons: ﬁrst,
unlike traditional constituent parsers, GLARF has
an ability to regularize several linguistic phenomena such as participial constructions and coordination. This allows us to handle this syntactic variety
in a uniform way. Second, an output structure can
be easily converted into a directed graph that represents the relationship between each word, without
losing signiﬁcant information from the original sentence. Compared to an ordinary constituent tree, it is
cles
easier to extract syntactic relationships. In the next
a
section, we discuss how we used this structure to
generate basic patterns.
ticles
3 Implementation
The overall process to generate basic patterns and an
discover relations from unannotated news articles is So
shown in Figure 4. Theoretically this could be a the
straight pipeline, but due to the nature of the im- word
plementation we process some stages separately and
combine them in the later stage. In the following
subsection, we explain each component.
where
3.1 Web Crawling and Basic Clustering A,
First of all, we need a lot of news articles from mul- word
tiple news sources. We created a simple web crawler in
that extract the main texts from web pages. We ob- words

Basic Pattern Generation
Basic Patterns
Metaclustering
Metaclusters
(Tables)
Figure 4: System overview.
that talk about exactly the same news and form
basic cluster.
We eliminate stop words and stem all the other
words, then compute the similarity between two arby using a bag-of-words approach. In news
articles, a sentence that appears in the beginning of
article is usually more important than the others.
we preserved the word order to take into account
location of each sentence. First we computed a
vector from each article:
∑ i
Vw(A) = IDF(w) exp(− )
avgwords
i∈P OS(w,A)
Vw(A) is a vector element of word w in article
IDF(w) is the inverse document frequency of
w, and P OS(w, A) is a list of w’s positions
the article. avgwords is the average number of
for all articles. Then we calculated the cosine

served that the crawler can correctly take the main value of each pair of vectors:

texts from about 90% of the pages from each news

Sim(A₁, A₂) = cos(V (A₁) · V (A₂))

site. We ran the crawler every day on several news

sites. Then we applied a simple clustering algorithm We
to the obtained articles in order to ﬁnd a set of arti-

computed the similarity of all possible pairs of
articles from the same day, and selected the pairswhose similarity exceeded a certain
in this experiment) to form a basic
3.2 Parsing and GLARFing
After getting a set of basic clusters,
to an existing statistical parser

threshold (0.65
cluster.
we pass them
(Charniak, 2000) and

's
Louisiana
T-POS
GPE+T-POS:coast

rule-based tree normalizer to obtain a GLARF structure for each sentence in every
implementation of a GLARF
75% F-score using parser output.

article. The current
converter gives about
For the details of

SBJ OBJ
hit
PER+SBJ:hit

GLARF representation and its conversion, see Mey-

ers et al. (2001b).

3.3 NE Tagging and Coreference Resolution

In parallel with parsing and GLARFing, we also apply NE tagging and coreference resolution for each

article in a basic cluster. We used an HMM-based

NE tagger whose performance is about 85% in F-

score. This NE tagger produces ACE-type Named

Entities¹: PERSON, ORGANIZATION, GPE, LO-

CATION and FACILITY². After applying single-

document coreference resolution for each article, we

connect the entities among different articles in the

same basic cluster to obtain cross-document coref-

erence entities with simple string matching.

3.4 Basic Pattern Generation

After getting a GLARF structure for each sentence

and a set of documents whose entities are tagged

and connected to each other, we merge the two outputs and create a big network of GLARF structures

whose nodes are interconnected across different sentences/articles. Now we can generate basic patterns

for each entity. First, we compute the weight for

each cross-document entity E in a certain basic clus-

ter as follows:
∑

hit something)”,
(Katrina

and “Katrina+SBJ:hit-OBJ:coast
hit some coast)”.

WE = mentions(e) · exp(−C · firstsent(e))

e∈E

extra basic

patterns by adding a node that is imme-

where e ∈ E is an entity within one article and

mentions(e) and firstsent(e) are the number of

mentions of entity e in a document and the position

¹The ACE task description can be found at

http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/894.01/tests/ace/ and the ACE

guidelines at http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Projects/ACE/

²The hurricane names used in the examples were recognized
as PERSON.

gle path
entities

of a graph.
“Katrina” and “Louisiana” with variables

Figure 5: Basic patterns obtained from the sentence
“Katrina hit Louisiana’s coast.”
of the sentence where entity e ﬁrst appeared, respectively. C is a constant value which was 0.5 in this experiment. To reduce combinatorial complexity, we
took only the ﬁve most highly weighted entities from
each basic cluster to generate basic patterns. We observed these ﬁve entities can cover major relations
that are reported in a basic cluster.
Next, we obtain basic patterns from the GLARF
structures. We used only the ﬁrst ten sentences
in each article for getting basic patterns, as most
important facts are usually written in the ﬁrst few
sentences of a news article. Figure 5 shows all
the basic patterns obtained from the sentence “Katrina hit Louisiana’s coast.” The shaded nodes
diately connected to a predicative node. (From this
example, we generate two basic patterns: “hit” and
“hit-coast” from the “Katrina” node.)
Notice that in a GLARF structure, the type

Katrina coast
PER+SBJ:hit-OBJ:coast
“Katrina” and “Louisiana” are entities from which
each basic pattern originates. We take a path
of GLARF nodes from each entity node until it
reaches any predicative node: noun, verb, or adjective in this case. Since the nodes “hit” and
“coast” can be predicates in this example, we obtain three unique paths “Louisiana+T-POS:coast
(Louisiana’s coast)”, “Katrina+SBJ:hit (Katrina
To increase the speciﬁcity of patterns, we generate
of each argument such as subject or object is
preserved in an edge even if we extract a sin-
Now, we replace both

SUFFIXbased on their NE tags and obtain parameterized patterns: “GPE+T-POS:coast (Louisiana’s
coast)”, “PER+SBJ:hit (Katrina hit something)”,
and “PER+SBJ:hit-OBJ:coast (Katrina hit some
coast)”.
After taking all the basic patterns from every basic
cluster, we compute the Inverse Cluster Frequency
(ICF) of each unique basic pattern. ICF is similar
to the Inverse Document Frequency (IDF) of words,
which is used to calculate the weight of each basic
pattern for metaclustering.
3.5 Metaclustering
Finally, we can perform metaclustering to obtain tables. We compute the similarity between each basic
cluster pair, as seen in Figure 6. XA and XB are
the set of cross-document entities from basic clusters
c and c , respectively. We examine all possible
A B
mappings of relations (parallel mappings of multiple entities) from both basic clusters, and ﬁnd all the
mappings M whose similarity score exceeds a certain threshold. wordsim(c , c ) is the bag-of-words
A B
similarity of two clusters. As a weighting function
we used ICF:
clusters that include p
weight(p) = − log( )
all clusters
We then sort the similarities of all possible pairs
of basic clusters, and try to build a metacluster by
taking the most strongly connected pair ﬁrst. Note

Source articles
Basic clusters
Basic patterns (token)
Basic patterns (type)
Metaclusters
Metaclusters (rows ≥ 3)
Table 2: Articles and obtained
and obtained 302 metaclusters
moved duplicated rows and took
had 3 or more rows. Finally we
total number the of articles and
shown in Table 2.
4.1 Evaluation Method
We evaluated the obtained
each row in a table, we added
source articles that were used
tion. Then for each table, an
every row and its source article,
up with a sentence that explains
its columns. The description
possible. If at least half of the
planation, the table is considered
each consistent table, the
sentence using variable names
to its columns. Finally, we
consistent tables. We also
in each table can ﬁt the explanation.

28,009
5,543
643,767
7,990
302
101
metaclusters.
(tables). We then re-
only the tables that
had 101 tables. The
clusters we used are
tables as follows. For
a summary of the
to extract the relaevaluator looks into
and tries to come
the relation among
should be as speciﬁc as
rows can ﬁt the ex-
“consistent.” For
evaluator wrote down the
($1, $2, ...) to refer
counted the number of
counted how many rows

that in this process we may assign one basic clus- 4.2 Results

ter to several different metaclusters. When a link is

We evaluated 48 randomly chosen tables. Among

found between two basic clusters that were already

these tables, we found that 36 tables were consis-

assigned to a metacluster, we try to put them into

tent. We also counted the total number of rows that

all the existing metaclusters it belongs to. However,

ﬁt each description, shown in Table 3. Table 4 shows

we allow a basic cluster to be added only if it can

the descriptions of the selected tables. The largest

ﬁll all the columns in that table. In other words, the

consistent table was about hurricanes (Table 5). Al-

ﬁrst two basic clusters (i.e. an initial two-row table)

though we cannot exactly measure the recall of each

determines its columns and therefore deﬁne the re-

table, we tried to estimate the recall by comparing

lation of that table.

this hurricane table to a manually created one (Table

4 Experiment and Evaluation
We used twelve newspapers published mainly in the
U.S. We collected their articles over two months
(from Sep. 21, 2005 - Nov. 27, 2005). We obtained
643,767 basic patterns and 7,990 unique types. Then

6). We found 6 out of 9
noting that most of these
tomatically disambiguated
didn’t distinguish a hurricane
³Hurricane Katrina and Longwang
examples are not included in this

hurricanes³. It is worth
hurricane names were au-
although our NE tagger
name from a person
shown in the previous
table. They appeared before

we applied metaclustering to these basic clusters this period.for each cluster pair (c A, c B ) {

XA = c A.entities

XB = c B.entities

for each entity mapping M = [(x A₁, x B₁), ..., (x An, x Bn)] ∈ (2 |XA| × 2 |XB|) {

for each entity pair (x Ai, x Bi) {

Pi = x Ai.patterns ∩ x Bi.patterns∑

pairscorei = weight(p)

p∈Pi

} ∑

mapscore = pairscorei

if T₁ < |M| and T₂ < mapscore and T₃ < wordsim(c A.words, c B.words) {

link c A and c B with mapping M .

}

}

}

Figure 6: Computing similarity of basic clusters.

Tables:

Consistent tables 36 (75%)

Inconsistent tables 12

Total 48

Rows:

Rows that ﬁt the description 118 (73%)

Rows not ﬁtted 43

Total 161

Table 3: Evaluation results.

Description

Storm $1(PER) probably affected $2(GPE).

Nominee $2(PER) must be

conﬁrmed by $1(ORG).

$1(PER) urges $2(GPE) to make changes.

$1(GPE) launched an attack in $2(GPE).

$1(PER) ran against $2(PER) in an election.

$2(PER) visited $1(GPE) on a
$2(PER) beat $1(PER) in golf.

diplomatic mission.

$2(GPE) soldier(s) were killed in $1(GPE).

$2(PER) ran for governor of $1(GPE).

Boxer $1(PER) fought boxer $2(PER).

Table 4: Description of obtained
ber of ﬁtted/total rows.

tables and

name. The second largest table (about

of ofﬁcials) is shown in Table 7.

We reviewed 10 incorrect rows from

bles and found 4 of them were due to

rors and one error was due to
4 errors were due to multiple
from each other that happened
event reported in the same

a parse error.
basic patterns
to refer to a
cluster. The causes

one remaining error was obscure. Most

tables were a mixture of

multiple relations

isting IE systems, as we are relying on a cluster of

comparable articles rather than a single document to

discover an event. We might be able to improve this

in the future by adjusting the basic clustering algorithm or weighting schema of basic patterns. Secondly, some combinations of basic patterns looked

inherently vague. For example, we used the two basic patterns “pitched” and “’s-series” in the fol-

Rows lowing sentence (the patterns are underlined):

8/16

4/7 Ervin Santana pitched 5 1-3 gutsy innings in his post-

4/6 season debut for the Angels, Adam Kennedy hit a go-

3/5

ahead triple that sent Yankees outﬁelders crashing to the

4/5

2/4 ground, and Los Angeles beat New York 5-3 Monday

4/4 night in the decisive Game 5 of their AL playoff series.

3/3

2/3 It is not clear whether this set of patterns can yield

3/3

any meaningful relation. We are not sure how much

the num- this sort of table can affect overall IE performance.

5 Conclusion

nominations In this paper we proposed Preemptive Information

Extraction as a new direction of IE research. As

various ta- its key technique, we presented Unrestricted Rela-

coreference er- tion Discovery that tries to ﬁnd parallel correspon-

The other dences between multiple entities in a document, and

distant perform clustering using basic patterns as features.

different To increase the number of basic patterns, we used

of the a cluster of comparable articles instead of a single

inconsistent document. We presented the implementation of our

and some preliminary system and its outputs. We obtained

of their rows still looked consistent. dozens of usable tables.

We have a couple of open questions. First, the

overall recall of our system might be lower than ex-Article 1:dump 2:coast Acknowledgements

2005-09-21 (1) Rita Texas

2005-09-23
2005-09-25
2005-09-26

Rita New Orleans
Bush Texas
Damrey Hainan

This research was supported by the National Science
Foundation under Grant IIS-00325657. This paper

does not necessarily reﬂect the position of the U.S.

2005-09-27 Damrey Vietnam

2005-10-01

2005-10-02

2005-10-04

2005-10-05

2005-10-06

2005-10-07

2005-10-19 (3)

2005-10-25

2005-10-25

2005-10-28

2005-11-20

1. More

than 2,000

active-duty alert

of islands and

2. Typhoon
ter
3. Oil
vously,
have

Damrey
killing nine
markets have
but
eased as

ward Florida.

Table 5:
affected
used for

Hurricane
$2(GPE).”)
extraction.

Hurricane Date

Philippe Sep

* Rita Sep

* Stan
* Tammy
Vince
* Wilma
Alpha
* Beta

Oct 1-5
Oct 5-?
Oct 8-11
Oct 15-25
Oct 22-24
Oct 26-31

* Gamma Nov

Table 6:

Hurricanes

Sep. and Nov.

star (*)
source
cane is
Article

were actually
articles that
shown in the
2005-09-21
2005-10-03
2005-10-20

Rita Louisiana

Otis Mexico

Longwang China

Stan Mexico

Tammy Florida

Tammy Georgia

Wilma Florida

Wilma Cuba

Wilma Massachusetts

Beta Nicaragua

Gamma Florida

National Guard troops were

to assist as Rita slammed into

headed west,
smashed
people in China,
been watching

perhaps toward Texas.
into Vietnam on
Wilma’s

the threat to energy interests

forecasters predict

the storm will

table (“Storm $1(PER)

and the
(Affected Place)
17-20 (?)

actual expressions

17-26 (Louisiana, Texas, etc.)

(Mexico, Nicaragua, etc.)

(Georgia, Alabama)

(Portugal, Spain)

(Cuba, Honduras, etc.)

(Haiti, Dominican Rep.)

(Nicaragua, Honduras)

13-20 (Belize, etc.)

in North America between

(from Wikipedia). Rows

extracted. The number

contained a mention of the

right column.

1:conﬁrm

2:be-conﬁrmed

Senate Roberts

Supreme Court Miers

Senate Bush

Government. We would like to thank Prof. Ralph

Grishman who provided useful suggestions and dis-

cussions.

References

Eugene Agichtein and L. Gravano. 2000. Snowball: Ex-

tracting Relations from Large Plaintext Collections. In

Proceedings of the 5th ACM International Conference

on Digital Libraries (DL-00).

put on

the string Sergey Brin. 1998. Extracting Patterns and Relations

from the World Wide Web. In Web DB Workshop at

Tuesday af- EDBT ’98.

Eugene Charniak. 2000. A maximum-entropy-inspired

progress ner- parser. In Proceedings of NAACL-2000.

appears to

turn to- Takaaki Hasegawa, Satoshi Sekine, and Ralph Grishman.

2004. Discovering relations among named entities

from large corpora. In Proceedings of the Annual

probably Meeting of Association of Computational Linguistics

we (ACL-04).

Adam Meyers, Ralph Grishman, Michiko Kosaka, and

Shubin Zhao. 2001a. Covering Treebanks with

Articles GLARF. InACL/EACL Workshop on Sharing Tools

and Resources for Research and Education.

566

Adam Meyers, Michiko Kosaka, Satoshi Sekine, Ralph

Grishman, and Shubin Zhao. 2001b. Parsing and

In Proceedings of RANLP-2001, Tzigov

368 Chark, Bulgaria.

80

Deepak Ravichandran and Eduard Hovy. 2002. Learning

surface text patterns for a question answering system.

mid- In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the As-

sociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL).

with a

of the Ellen Riloff. 1996. Automatically Generating Extrac-

hurri- tion Patterns from Untagged Text. In Proceedings of

the 13th National Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence

(AAAI-96).

Kiyoshi Sudo, Satoshi Sekine, and Ralph Grishman.

2003. An Improved Extraction Pattern Representa-

tion Model for Automatic IE Pattern Acquisition. In

Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of Association of

2005-10-26 Senate Sauerbrey Computational Linguistics (ACL-03).

2005-10-31 Senate Mr. Alito

2005-11-04
2005-11-17
Table 7: Nomination
must be conﬁrmed

Senate Alito
FedBernanke
table (“Nominee
by $1(ORG).”)

Roman Yangarber, Ralph Grishman, Pasi Tapanainen,
and Silja Huttunen. 2000. Unsupervised Discovery
of Scenario-Level Patterns for Information Extraction.
In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference
on Computational Linguistics (COLING-00).